{"id": "0000", "text": "Sharing my trip report, as well as some tips and tricks from our 12-day trip to Japan. I took the trip with my husband, both in our 30s, from the EU. Overall, we really loved it, especially Kanazawa part, despite some hiccups towards the end (got a food poisoning in the ryokan and the experience there was overall underwhelming). We would love to be back in a few years to explore more. No weird situations during the trip, except some intense stares from kids and old people, especially in Kanazawa (I'm a tall, blonde woman with a lot of tattoos). We decided to avoid certain super touristy spots and activities on purpose and honestly, when we come back one day, I would love to steer clear even more, as the best experiences we had were in a little more understated places ;) The plan came together mostly on the go, usually a day in advance, taking the weather into account. We didnt prebook ahead of time, the Shinkansen tickets we always booked or bought a day before. We initially wanted to fit in another day trip from Kanazawa, but ended up staying there longer instead and even then, there wasnt enough time to visit any of the local museums. Theres just so much to see everywhere. We mostly got around everywhere on foot, occasionally taking a metro using a Suica card picked up at Haneda, and for cross-city trips we took trains single tickets bought online or at ticket machines. If you move between the hotels/cities, use the luggage-forwarding service, I mean it. It's super convenient, cheap and it will be easier for you and everyone else around you. During our walks, we usually wandered into smaller, random streets, popped into minor temples, little shops, and even tiny local museums (for example, in Kanazawas samurai district there were several of those). We also made plenty of snack stops for some ice-cream, mochis or some taiyaki :) # Day 1 Direct flight: Copenhagen Tokyo Haneda # Day 2 Morning landing on Haneda check-in at Asakusa Tobu Hotel (very nice hotel, super convenient location) walk around Asakusa and Ueno areas # Day 3 Walk through Ueno Park Toshogu Shrine stroll toward Yanaka, passing a bit through Sendagi, exploring local temples, cemeteries, and small shops (my favourite part of Tokyo from what I've seen, though I'm aware we saw like 1/10th of it) Imperial Gardens (we only managed to see the East Gardens and nearby areas, as the rest was closed that day due to Sports Day) walk to Tokyo Main Station for dinner stroll to Ginza to see the architecture and go to Ginza Natsuno to pick up some nice chopsticks # Day 4 Shibuya crossing checking out the Hachiko statue (without queueing up for a photo) walk toward Shinjuku Yoyogi Park Meiji Jingu Shrine Yadorigi Caf in Yanaka (one of the only ethical cat cafes in Tokyo, so if you plan to visit such an establishment, try this one) # Day 5 Wagashi-making workshop and tea ceremony in Asakusa, wearing kimonos (I'm torn on whether I recommend it, it was good value for money for sure and in a way enjoyable, but it was a bit rushed at moments, my hair was done terribly (I didn't complain because staff was very sweet and also we were pressed on time, didn't want to hold the whole group) and if you're a lady larger than EU size 36/S your kimono choice will be significantly worse) Senso-Ji evening scenic cruise on the Sumida River with kaiseki dinner (I recommend such an experience, even though the food was not that good) # Day 6 Travel from Tokyo to Kanazawa via Hokuriku Shinkansen check-in at Hotel Forza Kanazawa (another great hotel situated conveniently mid-way between the station and main attractions) we didnt do anything else that day; it was pouring so hard that after a 15-minute walk, water was literally spilling out of our shoes # Day 7 Ozaki Shrine Oyama Shrine Ishiura Shrine Kenroku-en Garden including Seisonkaku Villa (both are must-see!) Higashi Chaya District (a bit of a tourist trap, in my opinion, most of it is boring shops selling more or less the same stuff, the Samurai district is more interesting, though smaller) # Day 8 Tour of the Myouryuji Kanazawa Castle and park Nagamachi District Nishi Chaya District # Day 9 Day trip by train to Takayama with a transfer in Toyama (buses were sold out for daaaays after) Hida No Sato open-air museum Showa-Kan Museum (surprisingly fun place!) Sanmachi Suji District return to Kanazawa (we had planned to see more, but scaled it back due to bear warnings and sightings in the area) # Day 10 Travel from Kanazawa to Hakone (technically to Miyanoshita) via Kanazawa Tokyo Odawara, then bus to the ryokan (Hakone Ginyu - a disappointing experience that I outlined in a separate post) soaking in the onsen and kaiseki dinner. A tip: if you travel to/from Odawara to Hakone/Miyanoshita, do yourself a favour and take the train, not the bus - it gets stuck in traffic and is overall a terrible experience because people bring huge luggage into a super crowded bus, you stand squeezed like a mackerel and getting out is a nightmare. # Day 11 Scenic train ride from Miyanoshita to Odawara local train back to Tokyo Akihabara (my husband wanted to check out a few places, my least favourite part of Tokyo we've seen) check-in at Mercure Hotel Tokyo Haneda (fantastic hotel with a great breakfast, super spacious rooms for Tokyo standards) # Day 12 National Museum last walk and shopping around Asakusa # Day 13 Return flight from Haneda Airport # Our impressions of Japan Pretty much everywhere, the service is top-notch thats simply the industry standard in Japan but for a European, its striking how *many* staff there are, even in places where we wouldnt expect any. Like a person whose entire job is to stand all day at the entrance of an underground corporate parking lot, or someone assigned just to a certain type of ticket machine at a station, or a person holding a sign and giving directions. In shops, there are often twice as many clerks as in Europe, and its impossible to walk through a shop without drawing someones attention. Youll never be left without help, thats for sure, but if you prefer a more hands-off shopping experience, you might feel a bit overwhelmed at times - I resigned from some cosmetic shopping because the shop assistants would follow me everywhere and put every single cream or make-up on me. People were really kind and helpful, but I think that what you give is usually what you get. Even though English proficiency isnt great many people dont speak it or are afraid to, thinking their English is too weak communication is perfectly manageable with a mix of English, basic Japanese phrases, and Google Lens when needed. We never ran into any real problem. Signs for tourists in transport, stations, and museums make it nearly impossible to get lost. Google Maps is your best friend. The streets are spotless you could honestly eat off the seats in the metro. During our stay I saw maybe four pieces of litter on the ground (though perhaps nightlife districts like Roppongi are less pristine; we didnt check). The downside is that outside hotels and some trains, there are practically *no* public trash bins a legacy of the 1990s terrorist attacks so you have to carry your rubbish with you. Since everything in Japan is wrapped in plastic, often twice or thrice, a small bag for your daily trash is highly recommended. There are almost no benches on the streets, save from the parks. # Food I think the truly local flavors appealed to me a bit less than I expected. Purely vegetarian or vegan options are not that easy to find (surprisingly few tofu dishes or restaurants!), and one has to be cautious many places consider dashi or bonito flakes (both fish-based) to be vegetarian. When getting a vegetarian set in a sushi restaurant I got a soup with a mussel swimming in it - fine for me, as I'm a flexitarian with a vegetarian preference, but an exclusive vegetarian could struggle. For anyone with food allergies: be wary. Theres a lot of bare-hand preparation in izakayas and sushi bars, ingredients are often stored together, and many places cant guarantee allergen safety and theyll tell you so themselves. What I *did* love were the desserts especially Japanese-style versions of European sweets: light, delicious, just perfect. And the sweet local snacks with red bean paste, or dango so good! We also ate quite a bit from konbinis (as all tourists do, I guess). Cheap, surprisingly varied, and even more surprisingly tasty. Any respectable Japanese person would probably faint hearing this, but out of all the onigiri I tried (and I tried a lot in different places), the absolute best one was the tuna mayo from Lawson xD Be aware that in a lot of cafes and restaurants all guests have to order something (no splitting one order between two guests) AND additionally everyone has to order at least one drink, it's super common. We're not into fine dining, didn't want to book any restaurants in advance not to restrict our wandering and most kaiseki/omakase experiences did not offer vegetarian options anyway, so we didn't dine in upscale places. Let me share my opinion about some spots that we have tried, though: **Tokyo:** Hitotema - a small bakery in Yanaka Ginza, absolutely yummy! T's Tantan - vegan ramen, their spot on Tokyo Main Station. Very hard to find, you need to go through the gates. Tasty, hearty, a big portion, though nothing to write home about. Super nice staff. Huge props for making a vegan ramen, though when the vegan options are so hard to come by in Tokyo. Taiyaki Sawada - best taiyaki, conveniently located. Fresh, hot, custard or red bean recommended. Cash only. CoCo Ichibanya - we tried their curry spot near Harajuku. Will not rock your world (I prefer the Indian curry), but it's tasty and you can customize absolutely everything in this curry - plus they have a vegetarian version - just be careful to order a vegetarian sauce, not meat sauce with vegetables (which is also labeled as 'vegetarian' xD) Dolce Festa Asakusa - wanted to try the fluffy pancakes. They were good, though slightly overpriced. February Cafe - went there for Western breakfast one day, it was really good quality and portions, prepare to queue up, though. Vegan Eat Tokyo - convenient location, on a pricier side for what it is, but it was good and filling. Cafe Veloce - it's a chain and nothing too special, but we used it a few times to grab a black tea and a really good cheesecake Plus some small cafes/sweets spots in Yanaka which names I don't remember, but they were cute. **Kanazawa:** Yabuken Soba - Really good handmade hot and cold soba, served by a mother-son duo. Very small place, cash only. The serving lady is super sweet. LaniBowls - Exceptionally friendly staff serving fresh, tasty bowls with tons of mouthwatering toppings. A must have on a warm day such as the one when we visited. Ebisu Sushi - One of the most exceptional meals I have ever had in my life. My husband got a classic menu, I asked for a vegetarian platter (though beware if you are an exclusive vegetarian, it may not be fully vegetarian, there was a mussel swimming in my soup). It was all more than perfect - the food, the service. We felt truly pampered. I won't say any more, so that I don't spoil it for you, just go there, you won't regret it. Cash only. KuriSalo - Western breakfast spot, close to the Samurai district. They have nice sourdough and good croque monsieur. Gelateria Ritorta - small portions and charging extra for a cone, but the gelato was tasty and they were serving some pretty unusual flavours Slow Luck Vegetable Bal - not fully veggie, but plenty of veggie options. Fusion cuisine. To me, it was just okay, but my husband absolutely loved it. We really wanted to try Aburaya and their special noodles as well, but the day we wanted to go, they were closed, unfortunately :( **Takayama:** No Name Coffee - very pretty little spot, serving really good waffles # Public transport Its fantastic and heavily used by the locals, meaning car traffic isnt nearly as bad as youd imagine for such huge cities. Everything is clearly marked, including transfers between lines and modes of transport; after one or two rides, youve got the system figured out. The only thing that could be more intuitive is the ticket-buying process for trains (online tickets have to be picked up at a physical machine anyway and don't be surprised if the machine prints like 8 tickets per person for one journey). # What surprised us 1) The constant 'Buy, buy, buy!' Shopping malls are enormous, and even smaller stores have an overwhelming range of goods to the point that it sometimes killed my desire to shop; too much choice! The streets absolutely bomb you with text, sound, and color, sometimes from several floors at once in the livelier districts. In parts of Tokyo, the sheer amount of stimuli can cause a sensory overload if you want to know what I mean, look up Yodobashi Camera or, heaven help us, Donki. Thankfully, Japan isnt only about such places :) 2) Tradition is very much alive in Japan. Local craftsmanship is carefully preserved Kanazawa is known for gold leaf and Kaga-Yuzen, Takayama for sarubobo dolls, Kutani for its unique porcelain, Hida for silk. Every region has its own ceramics, chopsticks, and more. You can really see the pride the Japanese take in their culture and history. It has its darker sides, of course, but none of that affected us during our trip ;) 3) Everything in Japan seems to have a mascot the local police, train lines, even shrines. They use them a lot for information and promotion, and Ill admit: Im completely defenseless against this kind of marketing. I want all the little frogs from Gero! 4) The number of elderly people (8090 years olds, by the looks of it) still working was striking not just as small business owners but also as regular employees and manual workers. And we noticed that in Japan, whatever your job, youre expected to always be doing something or at least look busy. Shop assistants, guards, waiters they never sit down. If there are no orders, theyre cleaning, labeling, organizing. Work in customer service there is definitely not easy. You can also tell how much people work just by looking at the metro: even around 8 p.m., its still full of office workers heading home after starting at 8 in the morning. 5) Toilets - everyones heard of Japans famous toilet technology the remote controls, the panels. You can laugh, but once youve used one, youll forever feel uneasy thinking about our barbaric European bathrooms. Theres real magic going on there. One day, were getting one I swear. 6) Shrines - my favorite was probably Oyama Shrine in Kanazawa, with its lovely garden and small pond full of carp. The best ones are the smaller temples the ones you can enjoy without the crowds. They have a wonderful atmosphere and often serve as community gathering places. We saw quite a few, but honestly, I couldve seen many more :) I didnt expect to like them *this* much. Just one tip - if there's a sign NOT TO take photos of the inside of the shrine, just don't do it. Like, seriously, I have seen so many people blatantly ignoring those signs, it was infuriating. 7) Prices - surprisingly reasonable. The biggest expense is, of course, the flights usually quite pricey. Shinkansen rides arent cheap either, but metro fares, restaurant meals, souvenirs even the beautiful ones all cost less than we expected, unless youre going for fine dining. Hotels were also much more affordable than in comparable European trips (Vienna, London, Edinburgh etc.), and the standards were excellent. # What we didnt like 1) The attitude toward animal welfare is very different in Japan. There are tons of animal cafs with cats, dogs, owls, otters, capybaras, hedgehogs, even pigs and the vast majority are *not* run with the animals well-being in mind. You can buy puppies or kittens in pet shops, displayed behind glass like hamsters or rabbits sometimes are in Europe (and the care standards are probably just as questionable). Some restaurants even serve live seafood. Id recommend avoiding any animal-related businesses in Japan, including the zoos, as truly ethical ones are very rare. 2) Nature in Japan is breathtaking, but if youre scared of wild animals or insects, do your research before venturing outside big cities. Once you step beyond urban areas or even at the outskirts of some places, surprises like snakes, mukade (giant centipedes), or bears are quite possible not to mention hornets or huge cicadas. We visited Hida No Sato in Takayama and while it was breathtaking, my husband almost stepped on a big live snake in one of the houses, while being just in his socks. 3) Sidewalks can be *very* narrow sometimes they dont exist at all, and you walk along the road marked only by a line of paint, sharing it with cyclists and pedestrians who cant quite decide whether to stick to the left or the right ;) Oh, and a tip at the end. If you buy a traditional fan with metal in it, they will not allow you to bring it in the carry-on luggage, learned that the hard way ;) Yeah, I think that's it for now. If you have any specific questions, shoot :)"}
{"id": "0001", "text": "Hi folks - my husband and I are currently in Japan. Last time I was here I wrote up a trip report for our \\~3 week trip as a way to give back and journal a little bit (feel free to find that in my history if you'd like to see golden route + Hiroshima, Hakone, and some other offshoots). We're back again for another 3 weeks, again golden route plus going more west this time. We're about halfway through currently and I'll write up more about our 2nd half of the trip later. We are 30F/M. Feel free to comment with questions. :) I'll also be skipping a few parts I wrote about previously, so some helpful comments may be there and/or there may be some typical/obvious visiting spots that aren't in this trip report. **Day 0: Flight - DC area to Haneda - JR East Hotel Mets Premier Akihabara** Same as last time, I had a super minimal TODO list at the airport - get cash and get our Welcome Suica. We have Android so we cannot get cards on our phone, but my understanding is iPhone can get a Passmo (I think) card on there, which is probably more convenient. The airport train line was pretty convenient getting to Akiba, and also our hotel was literally right outside of the train station so that was pretty handy overall for travel! Generally I prioritize hotels that are close to transit hubs when possible. That said this was definitely one of the smaller hotels I've stayed in (not that that was a problem for us). Side note, I brought my fullsize carry-on with a smaller Muji suitcase (bought last time) inside it, plus an empty duffel bag, plus my full size backpack with a smaller day backpack inside. Fully prepped for buying stuff. Our plan is to check 3 suitcases going home and carry on any last items bought at the airport. Dinner was just some quick snacks from Family Mart, then passing out. **Day 1: Tokyo - Akihabara, Ikebukuro, Chiikawa Park** Day 1 we kept casual and easy since we didn't know how our energy would be after 14 hours flying. This trip is also a little funny because it's officially our honeymoon, but we had invited a few friends for a week in case anyone wanted to join and make the trip more interesting since we'd been before. We had 2 friends join us for this week and that went into some of the scheduling and choices we made, including staying in Akiba for the gaming. This morning we just did some gaming then started our shopping at Uniqlo - would recommend buying the things you need for the weather. I got a Slowpoke tee that apparently is sold out in the US and a raincoat that has been the GOAT for the weather. Yodobashi also great for buying anything you need (ex. japanese nail clippers??) In 2023, we kept seeing weird little nervous creatures everywhere, which we eventually came to love and know as Chiikawa. So of course in 2025 we had to go to Chiikawa Park. This is connected to the Sunshine City mall so again get more shopping. Though be warned.. I had followed reddit advice that you could cancel tickets if you entered the lottery and didn't need them. I didn't read closely to see this rule from the park had changed and our group of 4 entered twice and won twice (at least we won!), so I ate the cost of 4 tickets for not trusting the text on the website. bruh. The park was cute though as someone who likes cute things. If you like photo ops, this is the place for you too. We got photos with costumed Hachiware and Usagi who were perfectly in character. The shop was great too - I got a Chiikawa bag that has been the GOAT for lugging around light souvenirs. We had binged the Chiikawa anime before coming to Japan to get the most out of the visit. **Day 2: Tokyo to Osaka - Candeo Hotels Osaka Namba** Normally I wouldn't have gone to Osaka so quickly, but since our friends were here only for a week and we wanted to spend more time in Osaka, we traveled the next day. We will be back for Tokyo at the end of our trip. Took shinkansen, and our friends figured out some way that you can buy shinkansen tickets from their phones (though buying at the station would have worked just fine too as there are many trains going between Tokyo and Osaka). Our hotel was actually kind of far from Namba station, further than I thought, so the walk was a little rough as we were still jetlagged and the early Oct weather was still kind of warm. That said.. what we didn't realize with this hotel is there is a connected onsen/spa at the top, so this ended up being awesome. I went a couple of times since it was attached to the hotel and it was free - why not? For those not in the know on onsen though, you do need to get fully undressed while up there, then shower in a stall before getting in, then soak, then dry and return. In 2023 I was too nervous to try the public baths, but earlier this year I had tried a korean day spa in the DC area that prepped me for this. My advice would be that it's not like everyone is staring at everyone else - we're all just trying to get a good soak. :) That said, I found that going at 6am (weaponized jetlag woo!) would usually be less crowded for soaking. Besides being excited for onsen, we just did an easy evening at Dotonbori which ismore shopping and food. Namba walk underground is great too. Lots of food options at both. **Day 3: Osaka - Umeda Sky Building, Gardens, More Shopping** Last time in Osaka, we didn't hit the Umeda area, so we went north this time. The Umeda Sky Building gave a great view into the whole city and it has a little garden just outside that I enjoyed. On our way back to Shin-Osaka area we hit.. more shopping up top (not sure how we got so shopping heavy at the beginning!). Yodobashi is good, Hands had good/cheap items, Pokemon, Nintendo. HEP FIVE was closed that day but apparently has shopping and a ferris wheel. I think this day was less revolutionary/less packed (again, jetlag), so here's some other fun facts. I discovered most quick marts have vitamin drinks and jellies so I started picking up some of them. Separately, on the way to Umeda there was a little pokemon display - apparently you can go hunting for pokemon to win (read: buy) some sort of mega pokemon item back at Osaka station. **Day 4: Day Trip to Kobe** Our friends had tickets to the Nintendo museum and went to visit Kyoto. We are going to Kyoto later (actually here right now as of writing this), so we took a day trip to Kobe instead. This was also the first day we activated our 7-day Sanyo San'in Northern Kyushu Area Pass (JR West/JR Kyushu pass, note: this covers Kyushu region and a little more but not all country). This was helpful for little trips like this, plus all of the shinkansen we took to the Kyushu region. Anything that is a JR line in that area is covered. I used an online pass calculator to determine this was good for us, especially since the full JR Pass increased in price soon after our 2023 trip. I had written down a ton of options for Kobe: carpentry museum, eat Kobe beef, earthquake museum, the ropeway, sake breweries. In the end there's only so much you can do in a single day. If I went back again, I think a sake brewery tour could be cool, maybe the carpentry museum too. Our main thing for the day ended up being the Kobe Ropeway and Herb Garden. You take the ropeway up and get a good view of the city (incl. seeing Osaka from there!), then at the top there's a little european-styled eating area before you walk down through the herb garden. I'm generally a plant and flower fan so the steep hike down was nice. Apparently it's great for photos as we saw lots of photoshoots. Once you walk down from the top with ropeway station 3, you get to ropeway station 2, where you can either catch the ropeway back down to 1 or you can hike down. We opted to hike down, though I think the 40 expected minutes was much longer for us. The plus side is it's all downhill, the down side is our calves were very tight for a couple of days after. That said there's a dam and a bunch of waterfalls which were nice to see. Just be aware that it's a bit more of an effort than a light stroll. Oh also, if you opt to do this and you had borrowed an umbrella for the herb garden walk, make sure to return it at ropeway station 2 so you don't need to walk back to the ropeway entrance at the end of the hike (which added maybe 10 minutes to our walk :-) ). Once at the bottom, we were ready to eat and we wanted Kobe beefthat said we didn't want to pay the highest Kobe beef prices. In the end we settled on the incredibly-named Steakland. Definitely not the most luxurious place, but the food was still really good! They book in front of you which is fun. Best piece of beef I've probably eaten. After that, walking and gaming around the station before catching a local train back. **Day 5: Osaka -&gt; Fukuoka - Tokyu Stay Fukuoka-Tenjin** The Kyushu region was the biggest, newest part of our trip. We wanted to hit some of the golden route again but still wanted to hit new spots. Fukuoka is just a shinkansen away. Though as a note, I couldn't actually reserve these shinkansen myself since they were all Nozomi trains, so we ended up having to pop into a JR West office (note: not the same as a regular JR office - they will redirect you if needed) to have them book a reservation for us. Thankfully trains weren't too crowded in October so we got a train for 10 mins later. Today was mostly travel, so nothing too long to report. We did walk around the Tenjin area and got some private Ichiran ramen - so good, and the private dining experience was fun to try. Tenjin also has a lot of shopping and activity. If I could go back, I would have gone into the smaller fashion stores that lined a lot of the side streets, as one of my trip goals is to get a bit more j-fashion items to bring back. **Day 6: Fukuoka - Uminonakamichi Seaside Park,** During my planning, I had heard both Uminonakamichi and Nokonoshima Island Park were interesting. We ended up going with the former, which is the sort of park where people love to bring their kids and families for a day just relaxing and playing outside. It was less \"tourist\" (or maybe that's all of Kyushu), but fun to see a park, nature, and people just having a good time! Transit getting here is a little inconvenient, so plan to take extra time. I think we had 3 trains in total so we were sitting for a bit (not bad to have the break though). We also didn't rent a bike at the beginning but wish we had because the park is surprisingly big and involved a lot of walking from us. Our favorite areas were going to the north side to see the water and the big flower park around the west side. We had a late start today, plus travel and the park took a while, so we didn't have time to get to other Fukuoka items today (we punted them to later). Rest of the day was dinner at Hakata station plus.. more shopping! There's a lot of options in Hakata at least. I forget the name but we got a bowl that started as a rice bowl but you add broth halfway through to turn it into something new. **Day 7: Day Trip - Mt Aso** Today was either going to be Mt Aso or a day trip in Kumamoto. We opted for the latter, but if we had done Kumamoto I would have tried to check these out: Kumamoto castle, manga museum, one piece statues, record stores I'd heard good things about Mt Aso though, so we took multiple hours of transit (trulynon-reserved shinkansen to Kumamoto, smaller train to Aso Station, bus up Mt Aso). After all of thatwe found there were toxic gasses coming out so we couldn't see the crater. bummer!! I actually completely forgot to check the volcano status, which you can do on their website. That said, I watched the status over the next few days out of curiosity, and it's totally possible you could have good conditions one hour and then the next hour have it be closed, so I think it was truly a toss-up whether we'd see the crater or not. We really enjoyed seeing the countryside though along the trains. Also, we didn't have this on the way over (didn't book in time), but on our way back we took the Asoboy train. Dog/Kuro themed train that goes direct from Aso Station to Kumamoto. So cute and faster than the train we took over. This was easy to book with our JR West pass. Back at Kumamoto, we at least made sure to eat horse sashimi and buy Kumamon items, before catching another non-reserved shinkansen back up to Fukuoka. **Day 8: Fukuoka -&gt; Beppu - Seikaiso** Before heading over to Beppu, we took the morning/early afternoon to catch some things we missed in Fukuoka. The castle ruins were cool and were next to Ohori park which was pleasant and lively. My husband really wanted to grab Shinshin ramen before we left - we sat in a long queue near Tenjin underground mall that only ended up being a 20 min wait or so. Good ramen! Then did a last minute look at Tenjin underground mall which we had somehow missed. Then grabbed a non-reserved seat on the Sonic Express to Beppu. As cool as the cities are, we really enjoyed getting to quiet Beppu. We stayed in a Ryokan so we had good food and onsen access. Our first night also had a small onsen in our room too so we spent a lot of time just soaking and relaxing. If we had left sooner and were more motivated, maybe I would have gone to Takasakiyama monkey park, but the relaxing was definitely appreciated. **Day 9: Beppu - Hells of Beppu, Kifune Castle, Beppu Tower** Between onsen, we did take our one full day in Beppu to see the tourist items. Travel is a little more inconvenient here since you need to take busses, but it's not impossible. With infinite time we would hit the ropeway, but we decided the Hells of Beppu seemed more interesting and unique. These are multi-color onsen for looking (not swimming). They're across multiple locations but if you start at Umi, there's lots of guidance on how to see them all. Most are walkable but the last 2 need a bus. We thought the first one was coolest, and least favorite was 4th because for some reason they also have a bunch of crocodiles in small cages thereweird. I love castles, so we stopped by Kifune castle, but this was definitely not the same big tourist trap like the Hells of Beppu. We did get a personal tour by a man who didn't speak english but had a book to share facts, and I'm not sure if he does this for everyone or if we were truly \"lucky\" but he left us pet the 6th generation white snake, guardian of the castle. Pretty cool! That said, this whole castle is a recreation, so not as cool as the ones still standing. I think Himeji Castle has still been my all time favorite as that interior is as-is. Last was Beppu Tower for another high view of the city. There's apparently an art museum here too though we skipped it. Finally made our way to Gu in one of the shopping malls before returning for dinner and onsen. **Day 10: Beppu -&gt; Kyoto - Hotel Gracery Kyoto Sanjo** Yesterday we sadly left Beppu for a long travel day to Kyoto. This was definitely our longest travel date: Sonic limited express, to Shinkansen which only went to Shin-Osaka (per JR Pass), to local train to Kyoto, to subway to hotel. I think this was something like 6 hours. Perhaps a flight could have been an option, but the convenience of the JR pass (already paid) is definitely nice. Beppu vs Kyoto is such a big difference though. Beppu is a much quieter town, off the typical travel path, there's a lot more Japanese people and a lot fewer english speakers (though we did see a ton of European tourists specifically). Kyoto by comparison (especially in Nishiki market area) feels VERY full of tourists. I'm excited to see Kyoto again as it was our favorite spot last time, but I will definitely miss the quieter Kyushu region! I'd definitely recommend heading out there if you're interested in going beyond the golden route. After arriving in Kyoto, we just did some light shopping before getting Mos Burger and doing late night gaming. I'll write up the rest of our plans in our next trip report! In the meantime, feel free to share comments, questions, or recommendations for our last visits to Kyoto, Yokohama, and Tokyo. :)"}
{"id": "0002", "text": "## PRE-TRIP Some background for context. Im in my mid-forties, my health has been yo-yoing the past few years and I have a bad right leg (broken hip + busted knee from an old injury). While I did visit Japan last year in spring 2024 for this trip I had one goal, climb a mountain! Ok so, this has been a bucketlist item of mine that I always saw as haha, never-gonna-happen. But after a health scare anyway after some digging I settled on Mount Takao. I wanted to experience Japan in the autumn this time and that seemed like a popular daytrip for fall. Also its beginner friendly with the option of multiple trails and a chairlift for the descent. I started going on 5 kms daily walks 3 months in advance to prepare. All the main bookings were made in late March or early April, which is why the prices seem low for an October trip. The goal, experience Japan in autumn and hike up Mt. Takao! . ## DAY 0 (Singapore Airlines, KIX, Arriving in Osaka) **Singapore Airlines 8/10** **Multi-city round ticket, Economy. $600 + $60 for seat selection. Landing at KIX, Osaka. Leaving from Narita, Tokyo.** As an airline this was a comfortable trip. Service is top shelf, the meals decent and a 25kg check-in weight allowance. The ongoing flight included a one hour layover in Singapore so I was worried about that but theyre super-efficient and even with a checked bag there were no issues. I will note that the chairs are rather narrow. The first leg of the trip the lady sitting next to me was all elbows -- and later all knees! On the second part of the journey I caught the attention of a toddler from the family one row over. For some reason she insisted on checking and rechecking the pouch of my seat. Im not sure what she expected to find in there but she was persistent! The lady next to me this time turned out to be from Osaka and just returning from holiday, time just flew as we chatted (and the toddlers exploration attempts!). Once in KIX I noticed a lot had changed since last year. They finally completed the renovations and customs/immigration section was now massive. Last year I was one of only 5 people in the QR-code lane in the airport. This time, the majority were in that lane with only a few completing the paper version on-site. I actually timed it, Landed at 4:05 PM and was done with customs/immigration AND collected my bags at 4:20 PM. There were over 20 stations specifically for the Visit Japan Web QR-Code holders and everything was color coded depending on where you were classified so it moved ridiculously fast. **Tip** Currently JR has a special offer for foreign tourist specifically for the Haruka Express to or from KIX. If you book your train ticket online through them (or like me, through Klook) then the ticket is heavily discounted, almost at half price. Also, its an open-timed ticket, so youre not tied to a specific train or even a date. Just show up, redeem the QR code at the machine and board the train on the spot. **Shin-Osaka Station Hotel - 7.5/10** **$86 per night, 5 nights.** Located 4 minutes away from Shin Osaka station this is your typical business hotel. Very clean and no frills it was a comfortable stay if rather basic. Because of the time of year + Expo 2025 the price was rather high but for Osaka it was basement bargain bin prices to be honest for this much space. My only complaint was that after landing I did the fall-on-the-bed-to-be-embraced-by-fluffiness thing just to end up with a head injury. Turns out they use traditional buckwheat pillows (I think), just imagine a bag of Quaker Oats as your pillow and youve got it. Otherwise, they are a pretty solid place to stay and the location was VERY convenient, surprisingly quiet too. . ## DAY 1 (Shrines, Osaka Castle, New Pillow) Step count for the day = 32.7K steps Today was the open *(lets explore Osaka day)* taking it slow after a long flight. You saw the step count right? So you know thats not what really happened. Ok, lets GO GO GO! First on the list, visit Samuhara Shrine. I heard they sell a special ring to ward off evil. Turns out you only qualify for that as a resident as its custom made. So I paid my respects and got a normal amulet, the priest was nice enough to actually write a wording spell and attach it too. I think the shrine is popular because by the time I left there was actually a very long queue of people waiting to pray. Next stop is Osaka Castle. I got turned around a few times here because it took a while to find literally anything. Still, it end up as a highlight. The castle exterior is lovely and I opted for the boat ride as well, while waiting for that I again got lost on the grounds and found an area full of spider lilies in full bloom! So lucky, I heard theyre a September thing! Leaving the boat I was handed a flyer for some Expo 2025 event thing, they had set up a food court of sorts just outside the castle in the baseball field so I figured why not, it was almost lunch time anyway. I was enjoying my first Takoyaki of the trip right up until I got attacked by a murder hornet! Ok so it was just bee but dear god was it HUGE! Why are the bugs in Japan so big! I may or may not have jumped and screamed causing the entire bench to topple over and caused a fuss. *I admit nothing!* Belly full and still a bit hyper I wanted to visit a few more shrines from my list. The Moss covered one (Hozenji Temple) and the lion head (Namba Yasaka Shrine). Got the first Omikuji of the trip, Great Blessings! This is going to be so ironic later, just wait. Namba is sorta distracting to be honest. Lots of interesting food stalls and shops. At this point I was already at 25K steps and really starting to feel it, heavy with shopping bags I headed to my hotel which is when I remembered that bludgeoning weapon of a pillow they had! This is where the remaining steps come in. Just me, totally lost in Umeda, trying to find a department store that sold pillows and navigate my way back. Worth it, used that thing the whole trip! **Tip** A random purchase today ended up the MVP of the trip. A rain + UV ultralight umbrella I picked up from the conbini for 1500 yen. Used it every single day including in the middle of a literal typhoon, and it actually held! Seriously get one, the compact type fits right into your purse without adding weight to it and Tokyo Hands has some really nice ones. . ## DAY 2 (Himeji, Five Hep Mall) Step count for the day = 23.2K steps One of the things I wasnt too sure of was the regional JR pass. I got the 7 day Sanyo Sanin Northern Kyushu Pass (voucher) for the trip and activated it today. I was worried it would limit my options but turns out it actually gave me more travel flexibility. Also, I want to note that even after some planned day trips got cancelled the Pass paid for itself twice over just from the base trips. Anyway first day trip was one carried over from last years wishlist. Himeji! I always wanted to see the castle, because of my leg though I skipped the interior (7 flights of stairs!) and spent most of the day in Koko-in Garden. Gorgeous place and very serene, there is a little restaurant there and I strongly urge you to have a meal in it. The entire wall overlooking the waterfall is glass so no matter where you are seated you have a view of the Koi pond and waterfall. It was just the best! Around Midday I was getting tired so back to Osaka, by the way if you ever visit Himeji just know the view outside the station is deceptive. The minute you step outside youll see the castle so your mind tricks you into thinking (Oh, its right there) its a 20 minute walk, a bit longer if youre me but yeah get ready for that. Anyway, remember how I got lost in Umeda yesterday while looking for a pillow? Well, there was one Mall that caught my eye called Hep Five. I think its because of the giant red Ferris wheel on top of it (yes, ON TOP of the building). It was only after I bought a ticket and got ready to get on that I remembered something, I dont like heights! Wait, why did I even want to do this! Eek! High, too high! After a minor panic attack I was back on solid ground and remembered why I wanted to go here. They had an Ichiban Kuji store! Doh! Anyway I really wanted to try that after watching quite a few youtubes about it. One epic fail later, I had a nice evening window shopping and trying different little treats. The day was muddled a bit because on the way back I quite literally ran into my first bumping man (Butsukari otoko). The guy looked me in the eye before picking up speed to shoulder check me as hard as he could. Mind you, he was rather young and Im old enough to be his mother so that was a really weird experience. **Tip** There is a rather famous store in Kobe called Frantz. It seems they expanded because I came across a branch in Shin-Osaka station. Today I discovered why their Magic Jars are a must try item in Kobe. Seriously if you come across them get those Jars, theyre out of this world amazing and this is from someone that doesnt care for pudding. Oh and they sell chocolate covered freeze dried strawberries in Narita airport. My family adored those, they are expensive but quality. . ## DAY 3 (USJ) Step count for the day = 26.5K steps My Day in USJ Last year this was my most anticipated, most expensive, day of the trip. It was also the one day it rained in Kansai causing all the outdoor rides to close. Guess what happened. You get three and the first two dont count. Sigh, the express passes were even more expensive this year because of horror nights. Tickets + 7 ride express pass = $302. You know how you just get a feeling something is a bad idea? Like, if two small bad things happen while youre on your way somewhere its best to just cancel least the third hit you there? Just me? Well that was this day for sure. So I wanted to start the day relaxed. The first ride on the express pass was at 10am so I figured Ill get on the train around 8:30 or 9, loads of time since the trip is only 30 minutes tops. Now, I had 2 smaller incidents just from the hotel to the train stations, call it superstitious but I was already antsy about it. Fighting that down (always a bad idea) I got on the train and off to USJ. Two stations before the final destination the train was stopped. There was an announcement but since it was in Japanese I didnt find out what happened until later. Apparently it was on the news, the train ahead of this one ended up in a collision so everything on that track was delayed for 40 minutes. I dont know if there were any injuries as this was second hand knowledge. Just that for those 40 minutes we were packed like sardines with a baby that wasnt having any of this nonsense and LOUDLY voicing his displeasure. That family was so embarrassed that once the train moved again they got off at the next station even though they were clearly heading to USJ as well. Because I started the day late to my first ride the entire day was just spent playing catch-up. Thankfully the staff were lenient about it and let me through. At around noon though it started to rain and most of the outer rides were closed. That included my most anticipated ride, Mine Cart. I actually waited a full hour hoping theyll re-open but no dice, it rained the whole day from that point on. Most of the outdoor rides closed and horror event shows got shifted around. I thought they would cancel them out right but luckily the weather lightened up a bit around 7pm so they rushed a few shows like biohazard and Hamikuma dance party so I caught a few of them at least. I think my favorite ride this year was the Jurassic Ride (got totally soaked though) and Harry Potters Forbidden Journey, not a total loss but was rather disappointing. The cherry on top was that somehow on the way back I got on the wrong train and almost ended up in Wakayama! Thankfully managed to course correct but it added an hour to my transit time. Today just wasnt my day I guess. **Tip** The official USJ Website includes a list of plant based foods in the park as well as a no meat/pork list. If you have dietary restrictions make sure to check it for actual meals while youre there. You have options! . ## DAY 4 (Okayama) Step count for the day = 16.2K steps After USJ I planned a light day for some R&amp;R followed by a local festival in Kyoto, the moon viewing festival in Daikaku-ji Temple to be exact. Even bought tickets for the Sagano romantic train and everything to make a day of it in Arashiyama. Unfortunately though the rain was just continuing from yesterday and Kyotos forecast was, for the first time, 100% rain all day! Weeeeeee. Well, that was a bust. I forwarded my luggage to Fukuoka (one 80cm check-in bag, 3060 yen) and took it easy until noon. I had a backup plan for rainy days so I decided to activate it and got on the train to Kurashiki. To get there you have to first stop at Okayama and then get on a local train, the station attendant was nice enough to book me on a special limited run train that was cloud themed. I mean, you read the title for this day right? You know we didnt make it. I was feeling rather superstitious after yesterday so when the bullet train (the Nozomi 69! Yes, Im a child!), the one famous in Japan for always being on time, was late AGAIN to where I missed my connecting train I started to get a bad feeling. Because I had the JR pass I could easily board a normal connecting train, it didnt have to be the special one. And I totally got on the very next one which went out of order and an announcement told everyone to sit tight. After standing there for 15 minutes I decided to take the hint and got off the train. Im not joking, the doors literally closed behind me and it started to move. Ok, Okayama today it is. First on the hit list, Okayama Korakuen! I can see why its labeled as one of Japans most beautiful gardens. This is the kind of place you go to get a million pictures for social and theyll all look amazing. I will admit I did like Koko-in Garden better, Korakuen looks better in photos but Koko-in is more enjoyable. The two do create a contrast though because while Himeji has a pristine white castle the one in Okayama is jet black. Sadly it closes early so I only saw it from the outside. Most of my day was spent walking around Okayama and I have to say, they really do love their peaches. The city had an interesting vibe to it, like that kid in middle school that saw Frozen and turned it into their whole personality for a year. Thats Okayama with the Momotaro legend, it was rather charming. **Tip** Ohayo Brulee Ice cream is an Okayama based company but you can get it at most 7-11 in Japan. Dont sleep on this one, easily the best ice cream! If you stop by Okayama however be on the lookout for special or limited flavors. . ## DAY 5 (Miyajima Island) Step count for the day = 17K steps With my large luggage forwarded to Fukuoka I made my way to Miyajima traveling light for a change, I started to appreciate that on the train seeing others struggle with their luggage between transfers. It was still raining &amp; rather chilly in Osaka when I left but 3 hours later it turned out the Island never got the memo. 30c and blazing HOT HOT HOT! **Sakuraya - 12/10** **$40 per night, 1 night.** Im pretty sure this was a pricing error. It was $40 for a private room with a sea view, on Miyajima Island, on a Sunday. It was a really nice room too, more like a small apartment. They even had a women-only onsen which was so nice after running around all day. I had a great time and watching the sunrise on the waters just made my day. I cant recommend them enough. Now, Miyajima on a weekend was probably a mistake. The queue for the ropeway was over an hour long and we got attacked by wasps ok, so one wasp but I swear that thing sent the entire queue into a panic for a while it was so massive. Also the step count is deceptive here, while in other regions I mostly went for flat terrains Miyajima was stairs, stairs, 180 angle dirt path, even more stairs. My hip and knee were sending distress signals all day! Ok done complaining, on to the good stuff! The Island is gorgeous, everything about it beautiful. Also the deer allowed me to pet it! Guys, I got to pet a deer! I also discovered I like oysters, that knowledge is rather dangerous on an island that specializes in them lol, so good. By the way if you ever visit, after the ropeway you have to hike about 1 km I think to get to summit of Mt. Misen. Its literally a mountain path, not paved or anything. I made it a third of the way before deciding to turn around and just look from the observatory. It was getting rather dangerous and I didnt want to lose my footing or something. Daishoin temple was another interesting place to visit. While I was there they held a traditional Japanese play too. I have no idea what its about but the costumes were nice. One thing I found rather iffy was on the temple grounds there was an area with what looked like freshly carved tombstones. A couple (westerners) decided that was the place to make out. It felt in-appropriate but I decided it was none of my business and left. The Caf adjacent to the temple has a plant-based menu including plant based Ramen so yay - my first ramen in Japan! I was a bit unsure because it was advertised as *cold* ramen but good god was it GOOD! For anyone interested in Miyajima, just know there are different ferries going to and fro from the mainland until around 10pm so it totally works as a daytrip. The island itself completely shuts down around 5pm. I booked a light up night cruise for 7pm and it was literally just me and the deer walking around the pier at that time. Totally recommend the night cruise by the way, that was amazing and worth every yen. Not too sure about the mini-monsters though. While waiting for the cruise I saw Ron Swansons mustache crawl by. It took a second for my brain to comprehend thats a bug and what looked like hair was actually legs, so, many, legs I swear some of those caused my brain to malfunction because what even is that. AND WHY IS IT SO BIG! . ## DAY 6 (Hiroshima/Hakata) Step count for the day = 15.3K steps I had some trouble sleeping in a futon so ended up watching the sunrise for the first time in years. I can see why people consider Miyajima to be a spiritual place, those moments of quiet are so serene. I sorta lingered that morning enjoying the atmosphere before finally saying good bye to the island and heading to Hiroshima. I decided to indulge a little, there is a speed boat that travels from Peace Park directly to the island and back (2000 yen each way). What I didnt know was that it was also educational, the screen explained each building and landmarks history along the way. The A-bomb Dome and Peace Park were a bit heavy emotionally but Im glad I visited. While walking around randomly I found myself in Hondori shopping street. I have a feeling people in Hiroshima like sweet things, either that or I just kept coming across sweet stuff all over the place. Somehow I managed to get on the wrong tram not once but twice. The city only has two lines so statistically Im not sure how I even managed that! I finally managed to find Hiroshima station though. I was early for my train so decided to stop by the pokemon center, the one in Hiroshima turned out to be my favorite. Almost all of the rest were out of the Halloween items but I found a few there as well as some of Hiroshima specials, it was a fun one for sure. After that I had my first Okonomiyaki! I found a place that made a pescatarian version for me. By the way two things about this particular dish in Hiroshima. First, its made with noodles. You can pick Soba or Udon for your base. Second, apparently you are supposed to eat it with a spatula. Looking around me though only the men did that, all the women in the place were eating it with chopsticks. Those are really big flavors, also I knew it! People in Hiroshima had a sweet tooth, even the savory dishes were a touch sweet. At exactly 14:08 my train arrived and I was first in line to get in. If youre wondering why Im mentioning this its because this specific train goes from Hiroshima to Hakata only once per day at this particular hour. Its the Hello Kitty Train. This thing was super cute but more than that there was a pair of twin girls on the train going crazy over all the details. They were around 3 or 4 so they really reminded me of my little niece. I end up going nuts in the Sanrio store once I got to Hakata because of this. In fairness the kid refuses to take off that hello kitty handbag even when she sleeps (in the hello kitty PJs!), money well spent I think. **Tip** In Hakata station the Tokyo Hands store is massive and stretches over five floors. It also has the largest section of umbrellas Ive ever seen. Literally an entire floors worth! Sadly the pop up they had for (Apothecary diaries) was picked clean by the time I visited. ------------------------------------------ Thank you for reading so far. After resting in Hakata for the day I continue my (mis)adventures in Kyushu and Tokyo for the second week of the trip. I figured this was a good point to break the report as from this point things actually get a bit chaotic. Yes, this so far was mostly planed and orderly, its about to go off the rails after this believe it or not!"}
{"id": "0003", "text": "Very long post incoming! Tried not to embellish too much and stick to the main points of our trip. My partner (28M) and I (28F) were originally planning on going to Japan in 2020, but due to Covid-19 that trip was postponed to June-July of 2025. Since we were first timers, we decided to do the typical big 3 cities and sprinkle in some day trips or one-night stays. We didn't pack our days full of activities, as so to be able to experience everything to the fullest. Even though it was supposed to be rainy season, we only experienced 3 days of rain. Looking back I am very happy with our itinerary. Two things I would have done differently: \\- doing Osaka as a day trip (for 1 or 2 days) from Kyoto. We loved Kyoto and were not as big of fans of Osaka.. \\- Secondly, BIG MISTAKE: we brought duffel backpacks. Good for stuffing full, but A NIGHTMARE to carry from station to station in 30-35 degree heat, especially when you're changing hotels often. Definitely doing a rolling one next time! **Day 1 (Sunday): Arrival at Narita** We landed in (and left from) Narita because it was cheaper than Haneda. We flew with Thai Airways which was perfect. We bought a physical Welcome Suica card at the station and each put 10.000 yen on it. First issue when we arrived: my luggage got lost (because of some delays in our layover in Bangkok). The staff in Narita was AMAZING: they wrote down all of our information. Everything was VERY organized and under control, I honestly never experienced something like it. In the end, my luggage was delivered to our hotel on Tuesday, two days after our arrival. We stayed in an AirBnb by Cask Village in Itabashi for 7 nights. It was wonderful: beautiful and spacious room, close to two metro stations, about a 30min ride to any major attractions or districts, kitchen and washer included! **Day 2 (Monday): Senso-ji temple, Asakusa, Sumida Aquarium and Tokyo Skytree** First thing in de morning was Senso-ji temple. Was kind of blown away by the amount of people. We roamed around Asakusa and then went to Tokyo Skytree. My partner wanted to wait until just before sunset to enter Tokyo Skytree, and because the aquarium was in the same building we decided to got. Honestly, SUCH a beautiful experience! It wasn't on our itinerary but I'd recommend it to anyone! Afterwards we went to Tokyo Skytree and saw mount Fuji! **Day 3 (Tuesday): Meji Shrine, Inner Garden and Harajuku** Second day of 30 degree heat! Meji shrine felt so much more serene and calm than Sensoji, and we even witnessed a wedding! Afterwards we went to Harajuku and randomly booked a massage (at Arona Spa), because I'm prone to serious headaches and you know, why not! It was amazing being in this very calm space in the middle of such a big city. After that we explored Harajuku and Shibuya, tried out a Purikura photomachine. The small side streets of Shibuya are SO cozy to roam through!! It's like you're in a completely different city. One of my favorite memories of the trip. In the evening we tried out Kura (conveyor belt sushi). The food was okay, but it was cool to experience. **Day 4 (Wednesday): Tokyo DisneySea** Fourth day was completely dedicated to Tokyo DisneySea. Arrived there at around 8h45 (about 15 minutes before the park opens) and we were in line for about 45 minutes before we entered the park. Luckily we brought an umbrella to protect ourselves from the blazing sun. Tokyo DisneySea is beautiful! It didn't feel 100% like Disney to me, but we're not huge disney fanatics anyway, so we just enjoyed the beauty of the park. Lines were brutal, so we bought Premier Access about 4 times. It's not cheap, but so worth it. We probably saved around 4h by not having to stand in line. We paid around 7500 yen each (on top of entrance ticket) for PA. Must do's: try all the churro flavors, they're so good + definitely try the gyoza! Soaring is a beautiful ride and Rapunzel is beautifully made - whether you're a big fan or not. The Toy Story ride was so much fun! **Day 5 (Thursday): Tsukiji market &amp; exploring Ginza** Tsukiji market was very busy, but it was cool to see all the fish vendors. After lunch we went to explore Ginza and Ginza six. If you're into books (any kind): the **Tsutuya Books** store inside Ginza Six is heaven. We went up to the top floor of the mall and you get a nice view of Tokyo from there. Tried to go to the Imperial Palace but was closed already. This is where we learnt that gardens and such close quite early in Japan (around 16h mostly). **Day 6 (Friday): Ghibli Museum &amp; Akihabara** By some stroke of luck we managed to get tickets for the Ghibli museum. If you're a Ghibli fan, obviously try to get tickets - it's amazing!!! The merch store was slightly disappointing though. Afterwards we explored the neighborhood and there's so many cute little cafes and stores!! Afternoon was Akihabara and I love anime/figures/gaming so I loved it there! We stayed until the evening and it was very cool to see Akihabara by nighttime. Bought a couple of figures in Traders bc I honestly didn't know where the best deals were. I'm pretty sure I got an OK deal on both figures (they weren't anything major). Went to a Don Quijote for about 10 minutes and I never want to go inside one again. In my experience: everything you can get at a Don Quijote, you can get at any other pharmacy/souvenir shop/sweet shop. **Day 7 (Saturday): Shinjuku, more Shibuya and teamLab Planets** Started with Shinjuku Gyoen National Garden. Very peaceful! Next up was Shibuya crossing (didn't do it last time) and some second hand shops. In the afternoon we took the metro to Odaiba for our evening teamlab planets visit. This was my partner's idea and I thought it would be a tourist trap, but it felt so magical! The barefoot part was my favorite. I would definitely recommend it. **Day 8 (Sunday): Gotokuji, Shimokitazawa and train to Hakone** One of my favorite days in Tokyo. Gotokuji was one of my favorite temples: not too busy, very cute and cute backstory/history as well. We went in the early morning so maybe that's why the crowds were okay. We went to Shimokitazawa afterwards. Very trendy-feeling neighborhood while cozy at the same time. Amazing if you like thrifting! Wish we could've spent more time there, but had to catch a train to Hakone. We stayed in Hakone Kowakien Mikawaya Ryokan - our splurge of the trip. Had to book a room with private onsen, since I have quite a lot of tattoos on my arm. The staff was happy to provide a fabric sleeve if I wished to enter the public onsen. Gorgeous hotel, with a mini museum inside, spacious rooms, and a busstop close by. **Day 9 (Monday): Hakone Ropeway** Did the standard ropeway and boat over the lake. It was very beautiful. Too cloudy to spot mount Fuji unfortunately. We hiked some more in Hakone and in the evening took the train to Kyoto, where we stayed in Crush On hotel. Only good things to say: close to everything - we could do most of our trips by foot. gorgeous room with tatami mats and paper sliding doors, and most of all: a really big bathroom! **Day 10 (Tuesday): Kiyomizu dera &amp; Kodai-ji** Can't speak enough on how much we loved Kyoto. Very different vibe from Tokyo. Aside from Gion that was very very busy, we could roam the streets and it was so calm and peaceful. Temple was gorgeous, even though it was packed. We ate lunch in Izuju Sushi and can't recommend them enough! We explored some more and went to Kodai-ji and it started pouring right as we entered (first rain of this trap we've had during the day). The grounds were almost deserted due to the rain and the rain made it even more special. Drank a green tea with a sweet in the tea house of the temple - never felt so peacful in my life - really recommend it. **Day 11 (Wednesday): Nishiki market, Teramachi Street &amp; Fushimi Inari-Taisha shrine** Ate breakfast in Kanno Coffee, really cute little coffee bar. Went to Nishiki to go knife hunting, and roamed around Teramachi and hit up some thrift shops. I was blown away by the sheer volume of thrift stores! Really enjoyed it. Went to a Pokemon Center as well. An hour before sunset (at around 18h30 PM) we went to Fushimi Inari Taisha shrine, to try and avoid the crowds. None of the crowds you see on social media! We were able to snap lots of pictures with almost nobody in the background :) Saw the sunset over Kyoto at the first viewpont. We didn't go all the way up because it was getting quite dark. It's quite a special feeling to explore the shrine at nighttime. **Day 12 (Thursday): Nishiki market part 2 and Imperial Palace** Went back for one of the knives my partner saw the day before. Bought beautiful woodblock prints in a cute little shop in Teramachi and drank coffee/matcha in a bar with an inner garden. Afterwards went to the Imperial Palace - so cool! The gardens are stunning. In the evening we went to Pontocho to explore all the restaurants but went out a little too late (at around 9PM), so a lot of restaurants weren't letting in any new customers for food. **Day 13 (Friday): hike from Kurama to Kibune** One of our favorite parts of the trip! The hike uphill is a bit challenging, but very much worth it! The rest of the hike was very doable. When arriving at Kibune we saw that it was possible to eat on platforms on top of the river/little waterfalls, but unfortunately these had to be booked in advance, and could only be booked by hotel staff. Luckily, we found a little coffee bar that also offered spots on these platforms! At night we took the train to Osaka. Arrived at a station in an (apparently) very poor neighborhood. We saw people smoking, puking on the street and being generally very loud. This might have cast a bit of a shadow over our first and general impression of Osaka. Our stay was right over the border of this neighborhood: Dream traveler Dreamers &amp; Haven in Nishinari Ward. Spacious as well, small shower and toilet, wouldn't necessarily recommend solely on location, but it was ok! **Day 14 (Saturday): Dotonbori** Got tattooed (booked in advance) at Good Times Ink. Still one of my favorite activities. Afterwards we explored Dotonbori. Felt more crowded than Tokyo and we weren't the biggest fans honestly. **Day 15 (Sunday): Osaka Castle** Osaka Castle is beautiful from the outside, but very modern inside. It's also not very big. The crowds were crazy. The history was very interesting, but too many people to be enjoyable. Afternoon: half-day trip to Nara. This was a spur of the moment idea, since it wasn't on our itinerary, but we loved it! Definitely recommend it as a day trip out of Osaka. Lots of the deer snacks were sold out already because it was after midday. **Day 16 (Monday): travel to Nagiso and hike to Magome** Also one of our favorite days of our trip! The trip from Osaka was horrible (mostly our own fault): lots of trains, wrong trains were booked, schedules were misread,... Had some drinks in the cutest little (and only) coffee/breakfast bar and took the bus to the starting point of the hike. It was absolutely beautiful, and not crowded with tourists at all. If you don't mind going out of your way, definitely visit Kiso Valley!!! In the evening we went to our house in Nagiso, called tsumugi tei. Beautiful house, full kitchen, full bathroom, living space and gorgeous, spacious bedroom. Waaay too big for two people but it was very reasonably priced and there weren't as many options in the area! I know I'm raving about all of these stays but they were truly all amazing!! **Day 17 - 18 - 19: travel from Nagiso to Kamakura and 3 nights in Kamakura** We stayed in Bettei Enoshima in Kamakura, an 80 year old authentic house. Beautiful and spacious!! We decided to unwind the last couple of days from our trip and hadn't really planned anything specific in Kamakura. We explored, ate food, did some shopping, got a custom ring engraved at Glanta to commemorate our trip, and sat by the beach (with my tattoos covered up). It was peaceful and wonderful. We visited the Tsurugaoka Hachimangu Shrine - beautiful (we saw lots of animals: butterflies, birds,...), Enoshima, Kotoku-in. **Day 20: travel back home to Belgium.** Had breakfast in GP Coffee Roasters, took the train to Narita and had some wonderful sushi at the airport. After that it was a flight with layover in Bangkok and back to Brussels. Edit: added our stays in Osaka, Nagiso and Kamakura."}
{"id": "0004", "text": "We just got back from our third trip to Japan and had a fantastic time. I wanted to make a trip report about the section of our trip where we travelled from Tokyo up to Sapporo using one of the regional rail passes as I feel like there are far fewer posts about these places, and hopefully some of you can get some useful insights or ideas based if you're considering a trip off the Golden route. We made use of the **JR East-South Hokkaido Rail Pass** which had two benefits. Its a 6 day pass which was a nice amount of time to spend making a few targeted stops in Tohoku and SW Hokkaido. Unlike the regional pass it has a good chance of saving you money as well. It was 35,370 (186) and saved us around 12,000 on the main trains plus maybe a couple thousand yen more on some local trains, so it was around 60-70 cost saving per person for our chosen route. We bought it through Klook. You can make train reservations through JR East even if you buy the pass externally like we did, so buy from your preferred trusted vendor. In Summary, we spent our time as follows: * 2 Nights in Sendai * 2 Nights in Hakodate * 1 Night in Noboribetsu * **Day 0: Fri 3rd October** Collected rail passes and train reservations from the JR East counter at Haneda Airport T3 before spending a couple nights in Tokyo. Collecting pre-booked tickets is really easy as you just need to provide your JR East account number and they can find all your train reservations in one go. We had 7 separate train pre-booked so I was worried I'd need to provide all the individual booking references, but this wasn't required. * **Day 1: Sun 5th October** Spent the morning in Tokyo then Shinkansen up to Sendai arriving around 13:00. Dropped bags at our hotel then headed out to the **Earthquake Heritage Arahama Elementary School.** I strongly recommend a visit. Most information is in Japanese but there are booklets in multiple languages provided at the entrance. A \\~10min video screened upstairs has English subtitles. Lots of really interesting information both about the event itself and what has been done to prepare the area for if a similar disaster were to occur again. Entry is free but there is a box on the top floor for donations. Access was really easy, you just need to plan around the bus times as its only around once per hour. We took the subway the end of the line at Arai Station. There is then a bus from the station to the school which take about 15 mins. By the time we'd finished we had about 20 minutes to the next return bus, which was just enough time to walk up the nearby evacuation hill to appreciate the view of the school and new tsunami defenses from a different angle. Toilets and vending machines are in a building by the car park. Note, it is closed on Mondays &amp; Thursdays From Arai station we went across to the International Center and walked up to the **Sendai Castle Ruins**. Nothing essential to see here, but it was a nice spot for getting a view of the city during sunset and you can see the Dai Kannon colossus head poking up over the horizon to the north, so it was worth the trip for us before checking in to our hotel and heading out for dinner. * **Day 2: Mon 6th October** Train from Sendai Station to Yamadera for around 10:00. Did the 1015 step climb up to **Risshaku-ji Temple**, which was a beautiful walk and great views at the top. Quite a lot of people around, but not to the point of feeling over crowded. Signs suggest it is a 130 min walk. We did take about this amount of time, but this is a very leisurely pace with lots of stops for breathers/photos. There are a few toilets on the way up, plus a gift shop &amp; vending machines at the top for drink top-ups. We were back in the town around 12:30 for lunch. We decided to stay for the afternoon and do a second trail, the **Minenoura course**, a trail on the NE end of the town. It is also listed as a 130 min walk, but it only took us around an hour and a half. We started the trail crossing the railway to Senju-in, ending at Yamadera Cemetery. Was also a great route, and I would recommend it if you have the time/energy after the Risshaku-ji course. It is less travelled and there are a few wildlife warnings, most notably the monkeys. One note of caution, if starting the route in Yamadera cemetary, the gate is quite hard to spot. You have to walk right to the back of the cemetery before you can see the gate down the slop on your right. As an aside, if you happen to be a fan of Jet Lag: The Game, this is where they started their season of Hide &amp; Seek in Japan! There is a third trail here called the **Backuchiiwa Rock (Ice Hill) course** which is another option for walking. Listed as a 90 minute walk, but I can't speak for it. If you just come for the Risshaku-ji route then this is a half day trip. If you do another course like we did you can easily make a full day out of a trip here. We were here for about 5 hours, doing the two longer walking trails plus a lunch stop, so with the 1 hour train to/from Sendai this was a full day trip. * **Day 3: Tue 7th October** We planned the day to leave Sendai in the morning, arrive at Hakodate in the evening and make a few stops on the way up. We went to a few unusual locations which won't be up everyone's alley so you could easily substitute this for a half day somewhere like Morioka or Aomori, but you may find some value in our stops. Morning Shinkansen to **Shin-Hanamaki.** Inspired by a YouTube video (shoutout to Tanner) we stopped here to see some Shinkansen pass by at top speed. There is no passing platform at this station so you can see them go by you at full tilt from very close up. The Tohoku shinkansen is the fastest (for now) and they go through the station pretty much at full tilt (almost 200mph!) We were there about 50 mins and had 4 go by in that period. Bit of a train nerd activity but it was a fun stop if you think you'd enjoy that. If you do go, you need to plan your trains carefully. Shin-Hanamaki does not have many trains stopping there. It can be up to 3 hours between stopping trains in a particular direction. We found a good 50 minute period in the morning when there are more stopping services for commuters. From Shin-Hanamaki, we took a short Shinkansen one stop to Morioka and then transferred onto a Hayabusa Shinkansen to Hachinohe where we hired a car for about 4 hours to make two stops nearby. We went first to **Shingo Village Tomb of Christ.** One of our group really wanted to go here and it was actually a very fun stop. Obviously not going to appeal to everyone, but we really enjoyed seeing this conspiracy induced \"historical site\". The \"folklore museum\" had English translations so was actually worth the 500 Yen admission. Note that the Christop gift shop on the road is only open at weekends and has some more light-hearted merch as they clearly don't take the site seriously, but the museum did have a more sincere gift shop. We did however happen upon the Chritop owners who were doing a small tour for a group while we were there, so we got lucky and were able to take a look at their merch, and they were very amused at us being there! To make the car hire a little more worthwhile we then made a second stop at **Hakukasan Hoko Temple.** This was a beautiful location which I'd thoroughly recommend if you're passing nearby with a car. We were the only ones there for the whole half hour we were there, so it was the most tranquil temple experience I've had in all 3 times I've visited Japan. After the temple we returned to Hachinohe, dropped off the hire car and hopped back on a Shinkansen to Shin-Hakodate then transferred down to the city proper. We went to the Kanemori Red Brick Warehouse for dinner in the **Hakodate Beer Hall,** which was a great dinner spot. Shops were closed by this point (18:00 closure) but the Beer Hall is open to 21:30 (last orders 21:00). * **Day 4: Wed 8th October** This was our one full day in Hakodate. Started with a short walk to **Midori no Shima** park near our hotel which had some nice views of the harbour. Then caught a tram up to **Gorykaku.** The only admission here is for the Hakodate Magistrate's Office, which I would recommend for the price of admission as it was a good place to learn about the context of the site. Headed back to the area around the Red Brick Warehouse for lunch then visited the shops in the warehouse. Around 16:00 we headed up the ropeway to **Mt. Hakodate Observatory** to enjoy the views and sunset. Very worthwhile coming up a little before sunset as its a great view both in day and night, so we enjoyed a few drinks in the cafe while the sun set and avoided the crowded rooftop for most of the time where people were positioning for photographs! Turned out we got very lucky with our timing at Hakodate. The ropeway shut for a month from 9th October onwards for its annual inspections/maintenance so it would have been much worse getting up to the Observatory had it already been shut. If you're coming in October/early November, do check in advance as the ropeway may not be open. * **Day 5: Thu 9th October** Took a late morning train from Hakodate to Noboribetsu station, arriving around lunchtime. Did the **Jigokudani valley** trails up as far as Oyunuma Pond, which was around 2 hours at a very relaxed pace with lots of photo stops. Could easily be done in half that time. We stayed at the **Dai-ichi Takimotokan** which I would thoroughly recommend. They have a few different meal plans. We had the buffet dinner and breakfast plan both of which were great. There was a huge selection of quality courses. It seemed that there was a more traditional dinner plan available as well, but I don't know the details. Dai-ichi Takimotokan has a swimming pool for those not willing to brave the onsen, but the Grand Baths are well worth a visit. You can visit it as a day onsen but in staying there you have access to the pool and onsen at earlier and later times in the day when it is much quieter. Be warned that it is the same locker rooms for the onsen as the swimming pool, so even if you are just swimming you will see some nudity, although you are allowed to be in your swim wear in the changing room and onsen entrance as long as your heading to the pool section (where swimwear is mandatory). I'd never quite mustered the courage to do an onsen during my previous trips, but this place did encourage me to finally try it and I'm very glad I did. Because you pass by the onsen going to the pool it gave me the initial exposure to the whole processes that I needed to give me the confidence to do it. * **Day 6: Fri 10th October** Enjoyed one more trip to the onsen before checking out. We then took the train up to Chitose (the town) for lunch. We dropped luggage at the station then headed to the **Sapporo Brewery** in Eniwa where we had a reservation for the factory tour. I added some detail about this to a post I made on the Hokkaido subreddit, but all I'll highlight here is that they do have bag lockers at the Restaurant (where you check in for the tour) so you don't need to store luggage elsewhere like we did. From the Brewery we took our final train using the rail pass up to Sapporo where to spend 3 nights there. A few closing thoughts on the places we visited. * **Sendai -** 2 nights worked well for our trip but an extra day would also have been nice, as we didn't do **Matsushima Bay** or really head into the city properly. Arahama and Yamadera were just higher up on our list of priorities. * **Hakodate** \\- 2 nights felt pretty perfect. The only thing we may have also liked to do but missed was to see the buildings around Motomachi Park (**Old Public Hall**, British consulate etc), but they alone wouldn't have been worth a whole extra day and we could have fit them in if we'd been more disciplined with a schedule. I had looked into **Onuma Quasi-National Park** and this could have made an extra day worthwhile, but because we were too early for the autumn colours we didn't end up considering it. * **Noboribetsu** \\- Felt like we had the perfect amount of time here too. The afternoon to do the walking trails and the evening to enjoy the pool and onsen without the day visitors. Hopefully this had some information/ideas that will be helpful to some people. Happy to answer any questions about why we did the route we did."}
{"id": "0005", "text": "Just came back yesterday from my 9 days' solo trip to the Setouchi area. The itinerary was shared here, though that was mostly a general list of things to do each day, I'll go into a bit more detail here where applicable. **General stuff:** - All the traveling was public transport and walking (lots of walking). I have not biked on the Shimanami Kaido (I haven't biked in many years and I am a solo traveler), though I did use the bus as a filthy casual. - Most of the pre-planning were done on Google maps. It was mostly accurate, though as I found out, sometimes you take more/less time than planned, and Google maps is there to help out again, though the times might be slightly off if you're a bit farther from the city. Super useful. - I bought the JR Setouchi area pass. For my case where I went to Matsuyama and back, the value of this pass is immense. - I've gradually used the bus more than the tram in cities. The bus has a broader network usually, and their speed is faster than trams. - IC cards are useful in the area, especially since it's mostly serviced by JR West. - My plan was to go after the China National days, so it's not as populated in some areas, so your mileage may vary. Hiroshima is definitely a popular spot for non-Asian tourists, though. Additionally, it seems like fall is only starting, as the trees are still basically all green. - My mealtimes are slightly off to try to avoid crowds a little. Mostly my lunch would be at 12pm, and dinner at 5pm especially if I expect a crowd. Also, most places would close at 8pm, so take note of that. **Day 1 (Hiroshima half-day):** - Arrived at Hiroshima airport. It is a rather small airport and the only way to get out of there (unless you rent a car) is by the limo bus. The bus goes to most major cities around the area. Obviously I took mine to Hiroshima station to first get my JR pass exchanged. The bus will take 1 hour, and if you come in by international flight, you need to get to the domestic arrivals area for the bus tickets, though I believe you can also use the IC cards. - I also had lunch in the airport, Oyster Farm Hiroshima felt like a good choice then, though I somehow only ordered a plan rice curry with nothing else (it does come with a small salad though). - I stayed in Dormy Inn at the center of the city. This one is a little old, and my room view is the next building's terrace, but again Dormy Inn slaps (see day 6 in link). Also mostly convenient as well to other areas. Furthermore, this one offers a free shuttle directly to Hiroshima station, though you need to reserve first (but I didn't use). - Checked out Hondori at night and it was a pretty nice shopping area. The highlight was the B-side Label shop which had a lot of cool and fun stickers. - Dinner was at Kunimatsu Ramen. Mixed dandan noodles is a specialty in Hiroshima, and this one's rated highly. It was great. **Day 2 (Hiroshima):** - Hiroshima castle &amp; park. The castle itself is basically rebuilt into a museum, though it does offer a decent view of the area on the top floor. There is a also a major shrine nearby. - If you have a JR pass with you, you can take the loop bus outside the castle's east exit, and show to the driver to ride for free. - Lunch was at Okonomiyaki Mitchan Sohonten Orizuru tower as I had to try out okonomiyaki after all. This one is near the atomic dome and technically it was a convenient place, though it was disappointing. The wait was rather long even if I arrived early, and I got a counter seat facing the street. The okonomiyaki wasn't very good, either (I liked the coke more than that). Better choices might be found by moving a block down to Hondori for food. - I checked out Orizuru tower right on top of the restaurant. The top floor was really cool, especially with its location next to the atomic bomb dome. You can also pay an extra 100 yen to fold an origami crane and drop it down a chute to help form the crane wall art outside. And there's some exhibits about the history of the area pre and post bomb. However, I do feel 2000 yen admission fee is quite steep. There's also a slide to go down but nobody used it, and if you decide to walk down halfway and want to use the elevator, there's no way and you're forced to walk down to ground level. - The atomic bomb dome is historic and a sight to behold. There's something amazingly dire about seeing a ruined building. Nothing more need to be said, as it's a must-go. - The peace park is also a nice place to visit right after. I maybe spent an hour in the park, and if I really wanted to, maybe take at least an hour more. The monuments and free exhibits are great. - Unfortunately a not so great experience in the Peace Memorial Museum. It's just so packed with people in the middle area (basically the bridge you see outside) that they should've instead do crowd control. Some of the exhibits are so crowded that you can't even get near. And there's parents taking kids in there who has no idea what's up and wants to leave or run amok, and a tourist guide stopping the flow of crowd so he can explain to his group and block others...it was just poor. The latter exhibits once the crowd starts to disperse is better. I know it's a must-go for tourists, but if you're able to, I highly recommend going to the one in Nagasaki instead. - Heading back to the Hondori area, I checked out Animate and the Sunmall nearby. - Dinner was at Reimenya. Another special dish in Hiroshima, this is a cold ramen with a spicy dipping sauce. As a disclaimer, there's basically only one dish to choose from, and you can ask for more/less spicy and pay for how much noodles you'd want (and also pay for extra meat). Very little people at dinnertime, though. **Day 3 (Matsuyama):** - This is where the JR Setouchi pass comes into play. You need to head to the ferry port first (via tram or bus - I did bus). Right when you get off, go to the main building and on the left side you can find the ferry ticket counter to Matsuyama. Show them your JR pass (might need to also show your passport - I needed to on the way back) and get the ticket to either the super jet, or the cruise ferry. The value comes from the super jet, which is 8800 yen for one way, and if you do a round trip, that's almost 80% of the pass' value. You can find the super jet's schedule here, though note it will change in November. It takes one hour for the super jet, and 3 if you take the ferry which is more luxurious. - After you get off the Matsuyama sightseeing port, there is only one way to get to Matsuyama (unless you use a taxi). It's to take the shuttle bus to the train stop and ride into Matsuyama. There is NO direct limo bus from the port to the city anymore. Additionally, there were comments in Google map saying it didn't accept IC cards, it does now. - Touristy protip on the train, sit on the right side, in the first car. You'll soon get to a station right next to the coast, and it's also a location used in Tokyo Love Story (a 90s J-drama). - For me, I got off at Otemachi to get onto the tram to Dogo Onsen. In Dogo Onsen area, I had lunch and checked out this restaurant for the local food, the sea bream rice (though I wanted to try the steamed one, it takes 20 minutes according to the menu). It's not too populated, and you can order by QR code, so it's a great choice if you can't speak Japanese. - I never planned to use the onsen in Dogo Onsen, though there really wasn't a line waiting outside pre-lunch, so I feel if I really wanted to, I could've taken it. The building is really nice, even. - Going to Matsuyama castle, I had to take the bus (the one to Matsuyama airport but not the express one) and get off at this one and walk a bit to the ropeway. You can either take the cable car or the lift, but the lift seems more fun, so I took that. - For Matsuyama castle, it is a hike. Even with the ropeway/lift up, you still need to walk up a considerable distance. I feel if you have some walking difficulties, it'll be very hard. Roads aren't paved, and inside the castle the stairs are pretty steep (also I didn't wear the slippers they provided and going up/down the stairs were not good to my feet). The castle itself is indeed impressive, and it's basically kept as-is, including the very steep stairs. But the views are great, and there's lots of cool historical stuff on display. - Going downhill I actually walked the whole way down the south road to get to the nearest tram stop as planned. It's quite steep. In retrospect, I should've just rode the lift down and find a way to get to the city after. - Unlike other cities, the local rail's main station is more like the city center instead of a JR station. So I went to Matsuyama city station and ate there for dinner, before taking the train back to Matsuyama sightseeing port. - I took the second to last super jet back to Hiroshima. It's very obvious, but do plan ahead since it takes about half an hour to get from the city to the train terminus, and about 10 minutes to the port, and if you missed the last ship, you'll have to take the very long way back to Hiroshima via JR or some nighttime bus. **Day 4 (Miyajima):** - This is the day where I really start using my JR pass (for like, taking trains). Went by bus to Nishi-Hiroshima JR station, and took the JR to Miyajima port. I could've taken the tram, but the train is much faster and has less stops. The tram does have an advantage in that it stops right in front of the port, though. - Obviously a given, but Miyajima is going to be packed full of tourists of all kinds. Itsukushima shrine and the otorii gates are obvious must sees, and they're all equally impressive, so I'm not going to say further, except that I suggest you take an immediate right turn after exiting the shrine to find a less populated area that can also have nice views of the otorii gate. I circle back to this spot throughout the day. - Lunch was at Fujitaya Anagomeshi. Conger eel is also a specialty in the region, and this one had lots of Japanese people going there, so I joined as well, and even though I was early and arrived before they opened, I was about 25th in line already, and had to wait for around 40 minutes. You need to jot your name down, and Google translate helped me jot down my name in katakana. This basically also offers one dish, and the eel feels a little dry, but it tastes good. - Went to Daishoin which was on the way past the above restaurant. It was not as big as I thought, but there was a set of stairs to climb (not as bad as Matsuyama castle), and it was a good experience to have a look around. - Also went to Hokoku-jinja, which was huge, though most people were using it more like a paid rest area to relax. Though, check out the ceiling, the pillars and the art (especially those giant spoons). - Had a bit of spare time and checked out the Miyajima Public Aquarium as well. Decent experience and also showed you the oyster farms they have in the area, though they're all in Japanese. - Also checked out the shopping street, tried out some local drinks and ice cream. The Momijido main store was a must-go for their fried momiji. - Dinner was at Kakiya. Despite outside looking like a takeout shop, you can actually sit in. I ordered the Kakiya set which had all of its dishes based on Hiroshima oysters and they also give you 3 grilled oysters as part of the set. This has a Michelin star, if I remember the Google reviews. - There are also deers wandering about. I haven't been to Nara but these deers here seem slightly more aggressive than the ones I read about in Nara, so don't feed them. I saw a lady feed a deer some crumbs and it basically tried to climb onto her hoping for more. **Day 5 (Himeji till night + Okayama night):** - Left Hiroshima early on via Shinkansen. I reserved a ticket last night (recommend this video, very useful) via the machines. FYI, now I can only reserve up to 6 times with the machines (before in my Kyushu trip, I remember it was unlimited but maybe they found people abusing the reserve system), but you can reserve with the counters after. Himeji station has lots of coin lockers, so no worries there. - In Himeji, if you're going to have at least a full day there like me AND also want to go to Enjyogi, go to the Shinki bus center across the station. It's a little hidden to the left of the small building on the map. Then, get the 2 day bus pass EVEN if you're only there for a day. More info here. It offers unlimited bus rides within Himeji city, including the bus to/from Enjyogi ropeway, and the Enjyogi ropeway tickets. The 1900 yen value is slightly better than doing station &gt; castle &gt; Enjyogi &gt; station, and even better if you need multiple bus rides. - First, Himeji castle. While it is an uphill climb, I am now an experienced castle climber thanks to Matsuyama castle, so this is much more manageable. I do suggest going there in the early morning if possible, at least to avoid the crowds. Most buses from the station will take you to the castle. It is impressive, and a definite must-see (especially with how white it is), also in part of keeping its interiors intact. - I went back to Himeji station for lunch just because there's more choices there. I came across this Maru \\(RIP\\) wall calendar and thought I could've gotten it later in Okayama. Little did I know, this led me to frantically try to find it in the next day as it turned out not all bookstores carry it (thank you Okayama Tokyu Hands for saving me). - Then I took the bus to Enjyogi ropeway. It is a rather long ride going through the suburbs and there are multiple stops. At the ropeway station, do make note of its hours up and down so you don't miss it by too much. - There's still a hike from the ropeway to Enjyogi proper. Now there is a minibus (500 yen per trip) that can help take you there, but in my infinite wisdom of being told it's a 15 minute walk, I borrowed a walking stick and hiked up the hill. It was a nice walk, though the walking path had some pretty steep parts. Also the walking stick really helped. - Enjyogi is vast and there's a network of temples. I recommend going directly to the three halls and then explore the inner areas before checking out the one at the entrance, though you can also do it in reserve. Would've seen much better views in fall, though. - At night I went to Okayama and stayed in Mitsui Garden Hotel right next to the station. The proximity is great and it also has an onsen and free massage chairs. There's also everything you need surrounding the JR station, and obviously Okayama is a great hub city as your base to the surrounding areas. The Aeon mall here is also impressive and definitely worth taking a look, at least. **Day 6 (Okayama &amp; Kurashiki):** - Morning was spent checking out Korakuen and the Okayama castle. From the bus terminus, I suggest that you get the Okayama one day pass from the counter near stop #1 (the bus to Korakuen) at 400 yen. The staff was kind of perplexed at what I'm talking about however, so I guess it was not bought much. I suggest you try to point at the leaflet they taped near the top of the counter window. This pass also offers discounts to Korakuen and the castle. - Korakuen is a nice place to stroll around. Again, maybe it'd be a lot nicer in a few weeks, but it's worth checking out. Leave by the south exit and then walk across the bridge to the castle. - For the castle, it's in the vein of Osaka castle, basically rebuilt into a musuem and even included an elevator and a small cafe. All the displays are in Japanese. You may want to take a seat at the cafe to see a video played with English subtitles about the castle's history. - After that I went back to Okayama station and checked out one of its famous dish, the demi-glazed sauce tonkatsu in this restaurant. You can order by QR code but it's only in Japanese (also reason why I didn't go to Kappa in Kurashiki is mostly to avoid crowds and waiting, but in retrospect, I could've gone there for dinner). - Took the JR Momotaro line to Kibitsu (be sure to check the schedule for the return trip) for Kibitsu jinja. It's a little out there, but the main attraction is the exceedingly long hallway, which was cool but I think it also led to nowhere, so you just walk to the end and turn back. The temple itself isn't too big, so just time yourself within an hour and you should be good to go back by train again. The road crossing nearby is also a nice photo spot of the station, if you're so inclined. - Heading to Kurashiki next. The main attraction is the Kurashiki historical quarter, though I did plan to go to the Achi shrine, hiking for so many days and visiting temples non-stop was a little too much, so I didn't go to the shrine and spent my time in the historical quarter instead. It's not as big as I see in the pictures, basically a little over a block. It is well-maintained however. There's also some denim stuff for sale (as it was historically a textile area). Spent till dusk to grab a few more pictures after most of the shops closed. - Went across the JR Kurashiki station to check out Ario Kurashiki and Mitsui Outlet Park. These aren't huge malls, but they're convenient, so that's a plus. **Day 7 (Takamatsu):** - Took the morning train (Marine Liner) to Takamatsu. Interestingly the reserved seats are in a lower level in the first car of the train. I do feel I don't need to reserve a seat, as most of the cars aren't reserved, but might as well use the pass' features. BTW, the pass doesn't work on their gates, so you just go to the station counter gate that's staffed and show it to them. - Checked out the Takamatsu castle ruins, which basically is a garden with wall turrets on the corner walls. As I understood, the moat is actually seawater, so it's different from others earlier, where they're on hills. I spent less time than planned here. - Took the tram to Ritsurin gardens. This is an impressive place where I probably spent like 2 hours just wandering. There's basically a south path and a north path according to the guide. If you're pressed for time, just take the south path, which takes at most an hour. The north path unfortunately feels a little under-maintained. - For lunch, I heard about this chicken thigh dish which is a local specialty (though I believe its origins is another city in the province). But amusingly, the popular restaurants offering this dish are only open at night. So I went to Toricho, which is an izakaya which opens for lunch, and offers this dish. The prep time is long, taking at least 20 minutes and it's treated like a side dish (so you can't like order it with rice and it feels strange to just order a thigh with nothing else), so I ordered a set of something else with this. - After that, I took the local train to Yakuri station, and started walking towards the Yakuri cable car station. The walk is about 20 minutes, and there's a 7-11 midway, but in the latter parts you're walking uphill. The cable car runs every 15 minutes and is kinda old and looks a bit funny. - Checked out the Yakuri temple. It's not a big area, but there is a viewing platform at the end of the temple to oversee the city (or the suburbs). - Taking the cable car down, I had to wait for the main reason why I went all the way here - Udon Honjin Yamadaya. It's a popular spot, with car parks outside. I went there a little earlier than 5pm and there's already a small line waiting outside, with cars starting to flow into the parking area. Inside there's a small garden and you also can get some experience sitting on a tatami mat. The udon here felt really good, basically sublime. I can't recommend this enough, even though I'm sure there's other udon restaurants in the city that's more convenient. - When I left, it's starting to rain a little and thankfully there's a bus that takes me right back to JR Takamatsu station, though the bus stop is just right outside the Yakuri station. **Day 8 (Onomichi day &amp; Hiroshima night):** - Took the shinkansen in the morning for Onomichi via changing to local trains in Fukuyama. Speaking of Fukuyama, the castle is right next to the station and it seems huge, though I can only see the walls. - First, I do want to check out the Shimanami Kaido to some degree, so as mentioned earlier, as a filthy casual I took the bus. Yes, there's a bus right outside the station and it takes you to Innoshima (essentially the second island). Outside the train station, don't cross the road and just take a left and wait at stop marked #7. Note that depending on the bus, some won't take IC cards. Then just take the bus until you get past the second bridge, and get off at this station. There's a resting area with a souvenir shop and a restaurant. - To the left side of this resting area, there's a small gated path (near the motorcycle stop) that leads to the viewing platform for the Innoshima bridge. Flip the gate lock upwards and walk in (remember to lock the gate - it's to prevent wild boars from charging in/out). There's a path that can actually lead you down the biking path under the bridge and you can walk inside the bridge, or you can check out the viewing area, but the views are best on the pathway there, actually. - Once you're done, go back to the resting area near the bus stop you got off from, and go across the highway via the elevated bridge for the bus back. Do note, there's also an express bus to Fukuyama that stops here. I almost got on that bus by mistake since their times are so close. - Heading back to Onomichi, I got off a bit earlier, at the stop near the Senkoji ropeway station. I had Onomichi ramen for lunch and ate at Shoya, which is decently popular. It was great, but I feel most highly rated Onomichi ramen spots should be good enough as well. - Went up Senkoji via the ropeway. The view is great on the mountain and the temple. I then walked the way down via the temple to the Cat Alley. There is a very friendly cat, but I suppose if you're expecting lots of cats to greet you, then you're going to be disappointed. It's mostly an alley with lots of cat artworks. - Then it's mostly just wandering around the town. Check out the port area, look at the ferries, train crossings and just the vibes. For the lack of a better word, it's very...showa (ie 70s-80s). It's like a showa-era town just popped up in this era. - Stopped by for a couple shops for some snacks, including Karasawa Ice Cream for their monaka, and Oyatsu-to-Yamaneko for their pudding. - Took the train towards Hiroshima and changed to the shinkansen at Mihara (also got on the One Piece shinkansen). Technically, I could get on at Shin Onomichi, but my luggage is in Onomichi station. - At night after arriving at Hiroshima, I decided to take another stab at an okonomiyaki place due to my earlier disappointment, this time in the Hiroshima ekie mall. This is the restaurant I ate at. I got to sit at the counter next to the grill! And this one is better, but I think at this point, I realized that the sauce is what really carries this dish, and otherwise you're just eating a bunch of carbs on a grill. - There is a Pokemon shop which I also checked out. I then went to Hondori to have a final look before heading back. - The hotel I stayed in was Sotetsu Fresa Inn, pretty no frills (I think they have 6 washing machines too), though I do like that they have a storage area where you can lock your luggage if you have an IC card after checking out. Pretty close to the station, though you do need to cross the road a few times. There's also a large Lawson right downstairs. **Day 9 (leaving Hiroshima):** - This is yesterday. I needed to get myself a TSA lock and the BIC camera next to the hotel has it for sale, though honestly in retrospect I probably don't need it for my bag of dirty clothes. - I decided against eating in the city and went to the airport to have lunch instead. This time going to Oyster Farm Hiroshima again and actually ordering something more than just curry with rice (it's curry with fried oysters with rice, wow). The security checkpoint in the airport is a hassle, you basically have to fetch the trays to place your bags in yourself, and then drag the trays alongside the queue. Past that, it's mostly easy, though there's very little to do once you're in the gated area, and it can get pretty crowded if there's multiple flights. And that concludes my trip report. In retrospect, I think I got most places I wanted to go without issues. Public transit isn't that bad (helps if you can read kanji/Chinese), though I do see the value of driving instead of public transport. But there was a lot of walking, and I even got to 30k steps one day. I suppose I should've visit less castles, parks and shrines (I joked to my friends I became an old guy only visiting parks and castles everyday), to maybe make way for something else, like the naruto whirlpools (which I think is outside of the Setouchi pass area) or a couple of the bigger islands between Okayama and Takamatsu. But still, it went according to plan, nothing bad happened, so that's pretty satisfying."}
{"id": "0006", "text": "I planned my first itinerary for Japan last December and received some help from you guys so decided to share my thoughts and itinerary for anybody interested. I recall being unable to find an itinerary that had similar interests to mine so ended up doing mine from scratch. # Who is this for? * young and fit individuals who do not mind a fast pace holiday (my wife and I registered **minimally** 20k steps a day) * nature lovers * cultural/architectural lovers * theme park lovers # # Day 1 (Tokyo): * arrival at Narita airport in the early afternoon (Japan has a similar timezone to my home country so we set off touring right away!) * **Sumida Aquarium.** A small nice aquarium with fur seals as the main highlight for me. Nice that it closes decently late as around 8pm iirc as most places in Japan closes by 5pm in winter. * **Tokyo Skytree.** Great view around Tokyo and right next to the aquarium. # # Day 2 (Tokyo): * **Tokyo Disneyland.** Big thunder mountain, splash mountain, haunted mansion and beauty and the beast are the must rides for us. The rest of the rides are pretty tame and kiddy so not really for adults. # # Day 3 (Tokyo): * **Tokyo Disneysea.** Tower of terror, Soaring fantastic flight, Journey to the centre of the Earth, Indiana Jones, Peter Pan, Frozen were more memorable for us. More adventurous rides than Disneyland for sure but still pretty kiddish. # # Day 4 (Tokyo, Fuji 5 Lakes): * Booked a klook day trip to **Fuji 5 lakes** from Tokyo. Only possible way for us to see as much as we could without hiring/renting private transport. * **Lake Yamanakako Pleasure Boat.** Took a small sightseeing boat cruise around the lake. Got to feed a huge flock of swans and ducks and saw a great view of Mount Fuji. * **Oshino Hakkai.** Great place for Japanese street food. Mochi was delicious and the stream running by the town had really clear water. * **Oishi Park.** Boring. Skip. * **Lake Kawaguchi.** Had a great view of Mount Fuji again. Really windy which made it cold. * **Arakurayam Sengen Park.** Climbed over 350 steps up to the peak for another good view of Mount Fuji. Has a pagoda and shrine at the top but nothing near as fanciful as the ones you get to see in Kyoto. # # Day 5 (Tokyo, Nikko): * Booked a klook day trip to **Nikko** from Tokyo. Again, a day trip was more convenient for us and allowed us to see more stuffs! * **Nikko Toshogu.** Very very nice architecture and museum with artifacts from the Tokugawa clan. Fans of the Sengoku Jidai or Shogun drama series should come. * **Akechidaira Ropeway Observation Deck.** Absolutely stunning view after a peaceful ride up to the top via the ropeway car. * **Lake Chuzenji.** Deceptively cold but great view of the lake. * **HANDS Shinjuku store.** After returning to Tokyo, we went here to purchase woodworks and handicrafts. Really good variety. # # Day 6 (Tokyo, Yokohama): * **Rikugien Gardens.** Absolute MUST GO for nature lovers. Such a beautiful and quiet garden. Not many tourists and just really peaceful. I went early in the morning just when it opened. Beautiful foliage even in early December. * **Zoorasia.** From my research, this came up as one of the more highly rated zoos around Tokyo and it did not disappoint. Highlights for me were the fur seal, snowy owl, okapi and red panda enclosures. * Not so much of a foody especially since food in Japan is just so good anywhere anyway but I tried **Puffer fish at Yokohama Vivre**. My life flashed before my eyes as I tried it but it was really good. # Day 7 (Nagano): * Made the trip up to Nagano early in the morning and checked into our Ryokan by late morning before making our way down to **Jigokudani Snow Monkey Park.** Amazing peaceful trek up the mountain to reach the hot springs where the snow monkeys bathe in winter. Easily a hundred monekys at least. But the monkeys are pretty used to human presence and just ignored us. Not too many tourists. Had wonderful pictures here. Pretty cold and snowy all around. **Enza Cafe** near the entrance serves delicious food. Ryokan dinner was fantastic at **Omadaka Inn** iirc. # Day 8 (Nagano, Matsumoto): * Checked out of our Ryokan and made our way down to **Togakushi Shrine.** We had to take a taxi up (really expensive) otherwise, we wouldnt be able to get there in time for our itinerary to work. The slopes of the mountain was covered in snow and ice and we didnt pack snow spikes so we had to walk really slowly. We came down some sections of the trek by sliding on our butts because of how slippery it was. A beautiful scenic view all around though so well worth the effort. The cedar trees are particularly impressive. * **Matsumoto Castle**. A really awe inspiring exterior with well preserved interior kept in its original condition. A must go for castle lovers. * Travelled to Kyoto by evening. # # Day 9 (Kyoto): * Booked a Klook day trip for our **Temple Run of Kyoto** lol. Otherwise, I think its not possible to get to all the main temples of Kyoto in a day. * **Kiyomizu-dera.** Well worth the trip! Very beautiful views of the city and nice architecture. * **Sanjusangendo temple.** Not my cup of tea. Really boring and would have skipped it if I had the choice. * **Arashiyama bamboo forest.** Beautiful bamboo groves. Worth it! * **Tenryu-ji.** Nice garden/landscape but skipable. * **Fushimi Inari Taisha.** Just like what you see on google. Too crowded. I tried running up to the peak since I was running out of time which is a typical problem if you do day trips. Not worth my effort. The view at the top was pretty blocked and there was lots of trash by the mountainside. Eyesore. * **Kinkaku-ji.** Nice golden pagoda as you see from google pics. More impressive in person. Worth the trip. # Day 10 (Iga, Nara, Osaka): * I know. This itinerary is crazy. But I really wanted to go see the **Iga-ryu Ninja Museum** and Iga is known for its Ninjas. Also popped by **Iga Ueno Castle** which is meh. Nice guided tour through the ninja museum but on hindsight, perhaps I could have skipped Iga altogether. Not really worth the trip down overall. Nice bakery by the train station though. * **Nara Park.** Really wanted to feed deers and I got my wish. They really like headbutting my behind though. * **Dotonbori.** Travelled to Osaka and arrived by dinner time. Wife wanted to go Dotonbori. Had loads of food. Worth it if you are a foodie. # # Day 11 (Osaka): * **Universal Studios Japan.** By far the best suited for adults. Very thrilling rides all around. Sadly, (and learn from my experience) we were pretty sick of theme parks by now and spent much of our time sitting around by afternoon. # # Day 12 (Osaka, Hakone): * **Osaka aquarium.** My goodness me. Best aquarium I have been to. The whale sharks, sea lions, king penguins and dolphins were the highlights for us. * Travelled to Hakone to sleep. # # Day 13 (Hakone): * **Hakone Ropeway Owakudani, Hakone Pirate Ship Togendai Port.** Took a scenic ropeway ride up the volcano for great views. Took a boatride around the lake for more good views. Well worth the time. Very chilly though! Windiest place so far this trip. # # Day 14 (Tokyo): * **Ueno park.** Took a slow walk through the park and saw amazing foliage even in mid December. Even got to see Cherry Blossoms (I kid you not). It was just 1 tree though. * Flight back home. # Reflection: * I wished that I had stayed longer in the ryokan and spent more time in **Nagano, Matsumoto** for sure. It was pretty quiet and peaceful with not much tourist traffic and in stark contrast to the hustle and bustle of Tokyo, Kyoto and Osaka. * I should have spent more time in **Hakone** too. Really nice little town and so much to see that I didnt really had time for."}
{"id": "0007", "text": "Can't sleep so figured I'd do a little write up of my trip so far. For my first week I've stayed in Shichijo and holy hell, from the first second of arriving it's so noticeable just how many tourists there are. Maybe I stayed in a quieter area on my first trip here 10 yrs ago, but the ratio of tourists to locals here seems waaaaayyy off. Day 1: After a 13hr flight to Hong Kong, a full day exploring HK and genuinely becoming more sweat than man, a 3-4 hr flight to KIX and arriving in Kyoto at 8am I was ready for a shower and a sleep. But I couldn't, so I powered through. Walked down the river to Tofukuji which was beyond pleasant, had lunch at Dragon Burger because at that point I just wanted western style comfort food. I think they might have been the best fries I've ever eaten. Explored a little then wandered up to Team Labs Biovortex for which I had a reservation. Incredible. Was not too crowded considering it was opening day and the staff are great, helpful and friendly and keep things moving along nicely. Loved every second of this. With no sleep I honestly felt like I was tripping for some of the exhibits. Day 2: Nintendo Museum. It's okay. I had fun. Would I go again? Probably not. A \"single rider\" type queue for the Big Controller games would have been nice so you could team up with other solo visitors. As it stands I had to skip that and have a second go on the Ultra Machine instead. I was excited to buy some merch but what's on offer isn't that great imo. Got a few of the blind boxes and the special anniversary book and called it a day. Walked down to Uji after this which was lovely. The hike up the mountain and the view from the top a highlight. I bought some matcha, I ate some matcha, I drank some matcha. I'm not really clued up on any of it so just bought what looked nice, will probably gift a tin or two for someone's Christmas present. Day 3: Kifune/Kurama. (Note: is it kiFune or kiBune? I've seen it spelled both ways) Incredible. The outside \"on river\" dining season is finished, in fact most of the restaurants were just fully shut and I can't help think they're missing a trick here as the weather is still great and plenty of potential custom, a licensing issue maybe? Great hike though, although I think I picked the harder option going from Kifune to Kurama, my thoughts being I wanted to stop at the onsen in Kurama before heading back to my hotel, but at the end of the hike I just wanted to head back. The train ride there and back is lovely too. I had other stuff pencilled in for the rest of the day but I thought I earned a well deserved rest so chilled at the hotel for the rest of the day. Day 4: the rest was needed and woke up early feeling energized so headed to Fushimi Inari for an early morning stroll. Still as special and spectacular as the first time I went. It's such a beautiful place. Glad I went early as on my way back to the station there were HORDES of people and coach loads all arriving. There were still a few main characters on my hike up with their tripods and \"looking wistfully into the distance Instagram poses\" but not too many. I will happily stop for a second if I see someone trying to take a quick picture, but if you're treating the place as your own private photo shoot location then get fucked honestly, I'm walking past... slowly... A quick stop at the hotel then went to nearby Sanjsangend Temple. I was absolutely blown away here, the main hall with the 1001 statues and the God statues was so humbling. I swear the eyes of the God statues look so real and feel like they're watching you. I'm not religious but I couldn't help myself giving each one a quick bow. I wish I could have taken pictures here but it's forbidden. Glad I've seen it with my own two eyes regardless. Another quick stop at the hotel and then on to Kiyomizu. I missed out on this on my last trip but holy hell I'm glad I went this time. It's spectacular. The most heavily touristy place I've been so far but it's worth it for the views. I wanted to explore Gion after this but honestly, there's so many tourists here that what's the point, all I'd see is the backs of people's heads so gave up on the idea. I'll try again sometime in the future in the middle of the night. I popped into K36 bar for a couple of cocktails at sunset. Luckily the queue wasn't too big and got a table fairly quickly. Great view of the pagoda from the top. The hotel itself is something else, felt like I was sneaking into a crime boss' compound. Maybe I'll stay here when I win the lottery. Had dinner at Hikiniku Tocome for which I had a reservation, insane flavors for what is basically posh hamburger patties. Chef was great and slid me an extra for no charge. Day 5: Lake Biwa cruise. Arrived at Otsu port for a prebooked cruise around Biwako and it's islands. Probably my highlight so far. At first I was a little nervous as I appeared to be the only foreigner on the boat and everyone else looked to be Japanese retirees. But everyone was lovely, and had a nice time with the couple and lady I shared a table with and managed to have a few conversations in broken English/Japanese and a lot of Google translate. Definitely worth it. Fell in love with one of the tour guides/helpers. Chikibu Island in particular was amazing. At the top there's a lookout to a torii gate on the cliff side which looks unreal. you're given 2 ceramic discs which you put your name on one, and a wish on the other, and your have to launch the discs and try and get it through the torii gate. First throw went a bit high but I ABSOLUTELY NAILED my second throw to the applause of all my fellow passengers. Felt like a rock star. The boat got back into port at sunset at which point there was Otsu Matsuri happening so wandered around town for a couple of hours taking in the sights of the lit up floats. I had wanted to eat here at some of the food stalls but there wasn't much variety on offer and the queues were long. Day 6: I had going back to Otsu Festival for it's 2nd day penciled in but I decided to give it a miss and rest and do the dreaded laundry. I think I've seen enough Matsuri floats between the previous day and my previous Japan trip... Until next trip at least anyway. Headed to the Yokai festival at Toei Studio Park. It was ok. Fairly brief, but the parade was fun and got some cool merch and photos of the performers. Then, as I was in the general area decided to go to Arashiyama as apparently there are illuminations going on at the bamboo forest. Now, I hated the bamboo forest last time I went and vowed never to return, but what the hell, it might be better all lit up. The Illumination bit is ticketed and I was walking up the main path to where was a sign saying sold out. Walked a bit further to where the actual entrance was and it didn't look all that special so headed back and when I passed the same point where it previously said sold out there was now a sign saying tickets on sale and a HUUUUUGGEEE queue so I noped out of that and travelled back to Kyoto. The forest did look a bit nicer in the dark and with lights though, I will say that. Tried to get Ramen at Honke Daiichi-Asahi but there was, again, a HUUUUUUGE queue outside so I noped out of that too, got a bowl from near my hotel. Day 7: a very very early start to get the train to Amanohashidate. I wanted to get some snaps of the Tango train going over Yurakawa bridge so ended up getting the 5.30am train from Kyoto to make it for into my itinerary. You go through a lovely little village on the way to the bridge from Tango Yura station and I'm glad I took the detour. Then on to Amanohashidate itself, great views from the view land and I forgot how much fun a chairlift is. Walked along the sandbar to Kasamatsu park where I basically did the same thing as view land but from a different angle. Then the bus to Ine where I took the ferry tour and dodged the seagulls, surprised I didn't get pooed on. Ine is great, I had wanted to stay until sunrise but by the time it got to about 4pm it was overcast and raining and I was starting to lag energy wise so got the bus back to Miyazu where I stayed the night at the Marriot. Highly recommend the hotel and also getting the tourist day pass (I booked it via Ride app so it was all digital, which saved time trying to get the paper ticket from somewhere on my outward journey). I wanted to eat at nearby Kozeni Sushi but when I went for a dinner time stroll it was closed and the guy who runs out said he has sold out. Other thoughts/points: THE AMOUNT OF SMELLY GAIJIN. I've read Japanese people don't really use deodorant, which is fine, and maybe that's why some tourists choose to forego deodorant in case the perfume smell offends BUT FOR THE LOVE OF GOD it is better to use some than have everyone have to smell your stinky ass BO. PLEASE TAKE CARE OF YOUR PERSONAL HYGIENE. Even with them going viral on social media I had forgotten how much the conbini egg mayo sandwiches are like crack. I don't know what they put in them but Unless I'm misremembering the drinks game seems to be lacking compared to when I was here last. I remember all sorts of fun new drinks but there's barely any choice from the vending machines and conbinis I've been to so far. I remember a really nice strawberry milky fizzy soda (calpis?) and Halloween Fanta(?). AMERICANS. Please. Learn to use your inside voices. There is nothing quite as jarring as having a peaceful stroll through a neighborhood and suddenly hearing your loud, shrill, annoying voices (no offence)."}
{"id": "0008", "text": "Hi hi, I finally have time to sit down and write down my experiences traveling to Japan for the first time all by myself. This sub really helped a lot so I wanted to share my thoughts, for myself as well to remember my memories. I really loved reading people's trip reports beforehand, especially the long ones, because it got me excited for my trip so please excuse the length! I'll put what I planned to do, and what I actually ended up doing. Some context: I'm a mid 20s Southeast Asian-American girl and I've never taken a solo trip anywhere before. I decided to book a trip to both Japan and Korea, though this trip report is just about the Japan part. I had a friend who was going with her friend group however I didn't feel like intruding and wanted to try out going back myself. I'm an ambivert so doing my own thing on some days and meeting up with friends on other days was perfect for me. I'm also from North Carolina and was a little bit worried about the heat/humidity but it was slightly comparable to our summers. Am also fairly active and am used to constantly being on my feet working a lab job BUT i have bad knees. Did duolingo for like a month or two to pick up some basics that were actually helpful! Transportation: Flights were booked in April ($500 one-way) and booked Hostels + Hotel two weeks later. Did the math and with all of the traveling I was going to be doing, the JR Kansai Wide Pass was worth the price so I booked that about a month prior. Also booked my Shinkansen 2 weeks prior even though I know you could do it the day of, I didn't want to stress about it and wanted good seats. Packing: Had 1 backpack and 1 carry-on. Really tried not to overpack since I knew I'd be buying a lot of things but was also prepared to back 1-2 checked bags. Day 0/1 - I booked through AirCanada since it was the cheapest however the week leading up to it, there were strikes and that did affect my flight. It went from 8am to 7am which was no sweat. BUT when I got to the airport (at 4am mind you), I got all the way to my get, tried to rest my eyes after only getting 2 hours of sleep and a migraine, and an hour before we were scheduled to board, my flight got delayed for THREE hours. Which wouldn't have been a problem except my next layover was supposed to be in 3 hours. They luckily rebooked me through United for free and my 2 layovers, in DC and Toronto, to just 1 layover in San Francisco (yay). The flights weren't terrible, I used an app to help avoid Jetlag but tbh I didn't do much except sleep for 3 hours, wake for 2 hours, sleep for 3 more etc, until the 10 hours were over. Official Day 1- Check in, Sumida River Walk, Akihabara Landed at Haneda Airport around 3pm. Bought and activated an e-sim from Airalo before I flew so it worked right when I landed. I also did the arrival card online beforehand cause I thought it was faster however, it was required by everyone to do it and have the QR code ready lol. They weren't handing out any physical forms on the plane FYI so def have it ready beforehand. I did it the night before. Customs line was still super super long but once I scanned everything, it was pretty easy to get out. Did a mobile Suica card and I got cash from my bank back home so loaded it up on my card as well. TIP: if you have a mobile suica card, put it on service mode when you are loading it up physcially then put it on transit mode to use it on the train. Took the train to my first hostel: Nui. Hostel Bar &amp; Lounge in Kuramae, and checked in. My hostel was RIGHT next to Sumida River so I decided to walk along it and get my bearings but also take it in that I'm really in Japan!! It was absolutely beautiful since it was at sunset. Decided to head to Akihabara since someone recommended to go my first night. Headed to Radio Kaiken but quickly realized that I'm not that up to date on current anime. Lights were cool though. Quickly got dehydrated so I walked to Gyukatsu Motomura cause it was right there. Got a seat after waiting for 15 minutes and wow what a first meal! Went to a random (HUGE) department store (?) to grab some necessities like fans, an some airism Uniqlo clothes. Was gonna take the train home but I got lost, realized I was near by Senso-ji temple and decided to just cut through it back to my hostel. The view at night was soooo much better than the day time. Made a friend at the hostel and she invited me out to try this random ramen restaurant a Hostel staff recommended (ran along Sumida River cause I lost track of time and was late meeting her lol but pretty!) so great way to end the night. Steps: 33,172 Day 2 - Asakusa/Ueno, Kappabashi St, ~~Ikebukuro, Akihabara (again)~~ Got an egg sandwich and coffee at a family mart and it was just ok (but got to use a lil japanese!) Met another person at the hostel and we made plans to go to Ueno Park together. But first, I wanted to see Asakusa during the day. Went to see Senso-ji temple during the day and holyyyyyy the heat and humidity really hit me. I got a UV umbrella from Uniqlo, a fan, and cooling wipes. That trio saved me my whole trip. Got a book to collects stamps from temples (this was the only day I used it lol) paid my respects, got some blessings. It was 8am and the crowd was already started to come in so I dipped. The stalls were just beginning to get set up but I wasn't that hungry. Took the train to Ueno park to meet up with my hostel friend and we walked around and enjoyed the views. Took pics of each other and visited smaller shrines and things. Went to an area that said it was a lake and there wasn't any water so was kinda confused but the lily pads (?) were cool. She really really wanted to visit the museums but we discovered the museums were all closed on Monday so she was really disappointed. I'm not that big into museums but I was sad for her. We split off and I decided to head to Ikebukuro. Went straight to Sunshine City Mall and yeahhh stayed for quite a few hours. I see the obsession with Gacha. I'm a size 6-8 M/L in the US so I was worried about sizing BUT I fit most free size shirts and am a L/XL (oof) in other clothing items. The girl from ramen wanted to meet up so we to the food level which was a floor with a bunch of restaurants. Stopped by one place with a long line of locals and sold out items and wow had the best fish I've ever had in my life. I really loved all the extra stuff that came with it. We split off and I went to animate and got goodies. Tried to visit this cafe I saw online but when I got there, it was closed even though it wasn't supposed to be :( Went back to the hostel cause I was sweating through my clothes. Met someone just checking into the hostel who needed to buy somethings so I decided to bring her along with me to the mall but at Tokyo Skytree which is breathtaking at night. Our hostel was just one stop away which was really great. Ate in the food court which is crazy to me cause the food is just great quality even though it's fast?? Too used to mcdonalds and chick-fil-a in my food courts. Had a great soba dish. Ramen girl invited us to try the conveyor belt sushi place - Kuma(?). Who am I to turn her down even though we just ate. I've never actually had conveyor belt sushi even though I eat sushi religiously but it was really fun, great quality, and fast! The fish choices were different than I was used to but it was fun trying them out. Loved the squid btw. Decided to lead the group through Senso-ji temple at night on the way back to the hostel cause they hadn't seen it yet and it felt like I was passing it on lol Steps: 28,993 Day 3: ~~Ueno~~, check out, Kiyosumi, Shibuya, check-in, ~~Golden Gai~~ I started to really like solo-traveling cause obviously my plans were already changing. Since I already visited Ueno the day before, I decided to bump up Kiyosumi. I really loved walking through the area, I didn't see anyone else who wasn't a local and it was just a beautiful area. Was amazed at kids walking themselves to school. Stopped by a really great cafe and unironically had an amazing grilled cheese and tomato soup. Wanted to visit Kiyosumi Gardens but it was kind of like dead?? Idk if it's under construction or something but there was no water or anything. Didn't really expect that so just stopped by another temple, before heading back cause I needed to finish my laundry. TIP: Japan dryers really really suck. Expect 3 rounds of drying before it's even semi-dry and definitely don't do it if you're on a time crunch. Asked the staff to hold onto my luggage after check out and headed to Kappabashi st. Visited\\_\\_\\_ to buy knives for my dad and brother and they were really helpful. I knew what kind of knife I wanted but it was still fun to try out different ones. Got them engraved really quickly and left. Wasn't in the mood to buy much else in the area. Grabbed my luggage and headed to my second hostel: Unplan Shinjuku. Just dropped off my luggage and tried to wipe down my sweat. The route google maps took me was TERRIBLE, I should've forwarded my luggage that was the worst walk of my entire life I wanted to cry. The train station was so far I started questioning my decisions booking that hostel. Went to Shibuya sky cause I had tickets with my friends from home that was booked two weeks beforehand. It was cool but honestly after 30 minutes, we were kind of over it. Ended up in Harajuku and shopped til night time. Went back to the hostel, decided to check out the bar attached cause the hostel just seemed so quiet even though I though it was social?? only a few people down there but we drank and decided to go out. Ran into someone else at the 7/11 across the st (who guessed the exact city I'm from from just my accent??????) who invited us to hang with his friends in the common room that was SILENT when the door was closed. Upon opening it, there were like 30 people drinking and hanging. It was a blur but upon looking at my photos the next morning, we left for Atom-Shinjuku at 3:30am. Lessons learned: Strong Zero is genuinely strong, this hostel was indeed social, telaportation exists and ~~love hotel beds are really, really comfy, you might accidentally fall asleep.~~ Steps: 30,021 Day 4: ~~Imperial Gardens,~~ Omakase, TeamLabs: Borderless, ~~Omoide Yokocho~~ Ok, woke up at 6am and walked back to the hostel lmao. Took a 3 hour nap because I had an omakase reservation with my home friends !! Took the train and while the chef and atmosphere was great, it wasn't in the top 3 best omakase I've had. Great homemade ginger ale though. It was cool and some of the showings were very pretty. Got some cute pics and sat to watch some displays. Very cool once but never again. I have no regrets, though I did get nauseous towards the end of the 2nd hour but that was my fault. I think I just went back to the hostel and knocked out for a few hours. Woke up and forgot I made plans with a girl from the night before. Waited for her at the bar downstairs but made friends with a group and baited them to go out as well. Ended up at Golden Gai and went to Yaku's Bar. Great vibes and bartender!! Highly recommend, amazing lemon sours. Ended up at Atom again, danced the whole night, made friends with a group of girls at a table who encouraged me to teach them some dances. Ended up at a mcdonalds and tried some Japanese specialties. Watched a man get his heart broken. Learned my lesson to take it easy. Steps: 24,723 Day 5: Tsukiji Market, Ginza, ~~Harajuku~~, pack Headed to Tsukiji Market around 11am. Would've been there earlier but I slept at 5am. Tried some famous spots, some random spots but everything was really great. Saw people or a TV station filming?? Got some toro, matcha, and daifuku. The one downside to traveling by yourself is trying less cause you get full faster :(( Went to Ginza and got some stuff on my wishlist including the japanese designer,\\_\\_\\_., my favorite purchase the whole trip! It finally started to rain for the first time which I was surprised since i was expecting typhoon season. Dropped off my wet shopping bags (although the later places put plastic over the bags which was so nice) at the hostel, met up with a hostel friend to go to Shibuya since I switched Shibuya and Harajuku on my itinerary. Saw Hachi &lt;33 and did some damage in Shibuya 109. Stopped by an onigiri place and it was so good even though I regretted what I ordered. Def wanna go back. Experienced my first Don Quijote which was very overstimulating however I just came for a new luggage. tried to pack everything I could into my two suitcases so I would only need my backpack to Kinosaki. Went to the 7/11 next to the hostel but they said they didn't do luggage forwarding even though the Yamato sign was on the door which was interesting. The family mart there did though. The whole process was very interesting cause I was really, really nervous it would get lost since there were some communication issues with the staff. But I had an air tag and a dream. Steps: 20,784 Day 6: Check out, Shinkansen, Kinosaki! Didn't have to do much for check out so I headed out super early with just a backpack and a bag I couldn't fit into my luggage I sent off. Headed off the Shinagawa Station to board onto my Shinkansen. Picked Shinagawa instead of Shinjuku cause my shinkansen was scheduled for 8:55am and I did NOT want to deal with the morning rush hour. It was super easy to navigate. I linked my ticket to my IC card so I didn't have to pick up anything and just tapped it at the gates like normal. Would HIGHLY recommend doing that to save the trouble. Picked up a bento box that was quite interesting. I wish I bought in the station before I got through the gates because the selection was very small once I tapped in so that's a tip. The train ride itself was very peaceful and I'm just so amazed at the public transportation. Bathrooms were clean, there was so much room for my bag above my head and in front of me. Could barely see Mt. Fuji because the clouds covered the top but he was there! Had my transfer at Shin-Osaka. I picked up my JR Wide Kansai Pass at the office there and it's a little paper slip thing that they warn you very heavily not to lose. I was told online that you usually show the attendant but they all said to just insert the pass through the slot and get through the other side. I really loved the pass and will be buying it again if I ever go back to the Kansai region. The Kinosaki portion was the most expensive part that made it worth it. Off to Kinosaki and it was so beautiful and peaceful. The train there was smooth and I just enjoyed the views. I stayed at Morizuya and I can't recommend them enough. All the staff really took care of me and I even go pictures of me all dressed up that they took! I booked Kinosaki cause I actually have a lot of tattoos all over my body that you can't really see unless I take of my clothes and I can confirm, I could go to every public onsen. Morizuya also had two private onsens I could use and I took advantage of that right after the complementary tea ceremony they did after I checked in. When I was trying to put on the yukata, one of the staff sent me back to my room and helped me because I did not do it right. I went to the ropeway right after since I heard it used to be tradition to go up to the temple there before entering the baths. I was their last customer so everything was kind of closing up but it was still a very nice view. I was a little nervous going to the public baths (there are 7 that are all free if you stay in any of the ryokans in town) but quickly got over that after my first one. Went to two for beauty and luck before going back to the ryokan for the dinner that comes with my reservation. Went to one more just before bed and wow this was probably my favorite part of Japan. Stopped by a cremia store and was reading an english menu when the staff turned it over to Japanese. Felt so silly when I turned it back to English. Highly recommend onsens, SO good on my feet after the 5 days in bustling Tokyo. Steps: 10,842 (what a difference) Day 7: Checkout, Osaka, Kishiwada Danjiri Festival, Check in to Hotel Woke up and squeezed in one more bath before breakfast and checking out. They staff said they would take all of my luggage and meet me at the train station right before my train so that was so nice. Walked around and got some souvenirs. Ok, this is the part that some people would think I was crazy for squeezing in. I saw that there was a festival in Osaka that was going and wanted to make it. I took the JR train to Shin-Osaka. Took the JR to Namba, put my bags in a coin locker (that was SO hard to find a free one and when i finally did, ten more opened up...) transferred to Kishiwada. The JR pass was so worth it here. The energy was SO fun though. Everyone was really welcoming and I went on a hunt for some food vendors were selling and got some really good squid. People were pulling large wooden shrine floats and they were speeeeeeding and the festival was known for their super fast and sharp turns. It was exhilarating to watch. After an hour or two, the festival was winding down so I went back to Namba, grabbed my stuff and then checked into my hotel, Shinsaibashi Arty Inn. It's a business hotel but I was surprised at the fact that you had to turn in the keys every time you wanted to leave the hotel. Didn't expect it but I didn't mind, there was always 2-3 people manning the front desk no matter the hours (and I tested all hours). My luggages were also safely in my room! After unpacking and freshening up, I explored Dotonbori and tried some okonomiyaki at a random pub but it was so good. Wanted to go to some famous places but was in no mood for a long line. I knew I should've rested more but the onsens really revived me. I booked my previous hostels on HostelWorld and it had a chat option. I didn't book one in Osaka so I didn't have access to the Osaka chat so I just booked one 2 weeks away to unlock the chat and asked if anyone wanted to go out. Got a response and met up with him and his friend and they took me to a standing bar with all you can drink for 30,000 yen I think. Man, do people smoke inside. They were from London and loved it but I was not used to it being from America (and with asthma) but when in rome, do as the roman. Met a group of japanese girls that adopted me for the night and they were so sweet! One of two traveler's friend showed up and we decided to go to Ghost Osaka (That was RIGHT next to my hotel, how crazy) and it was really great music and drinks and vibes. Left the club I think at 4am?? Was gonna go on another adventure with someone but we saw this girl who was drunk out of her mind with this dude who did not give good vibes so we asked if she needed help getting back to her hostel, made the creepy dude leave, I used my towel to stop her bleeding foot??, went to ANOTHER hostel because she sent us to the wrong one, and then it was 7am and we finally dropped her off, shared a kiss goodbye, and I went back to the hotel, picked up my keys and passed out Steps: 31,874 Day 8: Nara + Uji Had a late start after the night before obviously. Took the JR to Nara around 12pm, took a bus to the park, saw the deer, took some pics. They were cute and it was fun to watch them chase people. I wasn't in the mood to get bitten so I didn't want to buy any food. I was thinking about it but all the deer surrounding the vendors had a little bit too much excitement in their eyes. Was gonna go into the temple but I realized I did not have any cash. Spent about an hour here and I was ready to leave honestly, felt like it would have been more fun with another person. Took another JR train to Uji. Uji was cute, I felt like people were mainly there to shop for matcha which was understandable. I'm not too big on buying matcha since I'm pretty lazy back home but I bought some gifts for friends and family. I went to some dessert spots, drank some matcha and then went to a ramen place that had such good, torched duck. It was around 6pm when I left back to Osaka. The JR trains were all great, I stopped looking at navigation because it was just so straight forward and not having to worry about the cost was so easy with the pass. I only used by IC card for local trains around. Got to Osaka to explore Namba area more. Decided, \"ya know I haven't seen Osaka Castle yet\", and thought why not. Let me tell you what a climb and I'm so happy I did it at night cause I can't imagine doing it in the heat and humidity. I was STILL sweating my clothes off and F those stairs. But it was pretty lit up. Headed back to my hotel to do another load of laundry. Realized it was gonna take a while... and the club was right next door... you see where I'm going with this right? The bouncer laughed at me coming out of my hotel into the club. Met two locals (one girl was a promoter?) and we had fun the rest of the night! Steps: 31,314 Day 9: Kyoto day trip While yes, I probably should've spent more days in Kyoto, I didn't have enough days for that so we're gonna make the most of it. Started in Arashiyama and went to the bamboo forest. It was crowded and so hot that I just didn't have it in me to go in very far. I also did start pretty late in the day (11am) so that's on me but I wasn't looking forward to it much anyways. Now the river! That's more my vibe, I love a good body of water. I had a reservation at a restaurant but since I was early I just sat on a bench and enjoyed the beast of a river that it was. Food was once again, delicious. Honestly I was disappointed at myself because while I loved food, I just didn't have much of an appetite so I ate a lot less than I wanted throughout this whole trip :(( Went to Nishiki Market, got chili flakes, was once again overstimulated and dipped. Went to a cafe that was on my list, waited TWO HOURS, only to be disappointed. Never again. Took the buses to visit Yasaka Shrine and Kiyomizu-dera. I went around 6pm and the crowds were thinning out thankfully. Saw the sights and thought \"wow, cool\" and left. I feel like when you're by yourself, you go through sightseeing so much faster and I feel so bad but I can't stand around appreciating beauty for too long. I also kept feeling bad getting in the way of people's photoshoots. made my way to my dinner reservation that was further than I thought in Nanzenji. Honestly really regret this dinner reservation because I had no appetite!! If I stuck with just lunch, I would've been a lot happier. Since the sun had already set, I stopped by Fushimi Inari before heading back home. It was really peaceful at night and not crowded at all but there were some walking tours going on. I paid my respects at the shrine, walked a little through the torii gates and called it a night. Felt like I was coming down with something so grabbed cold medicine, turned on the TV, packed and called it an early night for once. Steps: 20,406 Day 10: Checkout, KIX, Fly to Korea Woke up with a cough and couldn't tell if it was all the cigarette smoke building up from all the nights or the hotel room that became wetter than the dehumidifier could handle. And yes, I could've toughened it up and taken the trains to the airport but no, I treated myself to a $130 uber instead. Got through security, spent all my last yen on gifts in duty free, had one last katsu curry and took my one hour flight to Korea! Final Thoughts and Tips: I'm already thinking about my next Japan trip. I honestly didn't have too many regrets. I was kinda exhausted by the end of it but it was truly worth it. If I could change anything, it would've just been to add one more day to my Kansai part of the trip. \\- Speaking a little Japanese really does go a long way and immersion is the best practice! \\- Cooling wipes + UV umbrella + mini fan to beat the heat and humidity. For some reason, when I wore my hair down I was sweating less in the face?? I bought clothes in Japan that were mainly flowy pants and wore them most of the time and I never felt too hot \\- I barely looked at any recommendations I wrote down, I was too lazy to even look at my phone, the heat made it overheat, and I just did not want to. I mainly got all of my meals going with the crowd or walking into something that looked good and didn't have a less than average meal. \\- The malls are a great place to escape the heat. You can satisfy your gacha, get food, and do some shopping too \\- I did get really used to just leaving my stuff around. I had my passport in my bag that would be literally open all the time cause I had too much stuff and never worried about someone stealing anything. \\- Safety in general was great! I would be walking busy areas of the street from 2-6am and never once felt nervous. \\- Def use google maps for the train however I did switch to apple maps a lot for walking directions since for some reason it worked better for me?? But google maps was so good for trains. Everything was straightforward and there was barely a learning curve. I did use JapanTravel Navitime a lot to plan routes for JR trains since I could put what JR Pass I had on their and it would select the most cost effective routes. \\- Didn't have too many situations where I needed a lot of physical large yen but I did run into being low on coins a lot more than I expected. \\- The hangover drinks????? the one with the liver on the front?? worked amazing. 10/10. never had a hangover (im so prone to them) when I took them but had the worst one the one night I didn't. There's probably more but I'm sure this is already super super long so feel free to ask me questions!"}
{"id": "0009", "text": "This itinerary has been brought to you by a person who decided to get the vacation approval 5 days before the trip. Trip was a surprise suggestion from extending family members and decided I should have fun on my birthday. Trip is 10 days including flying hours. Day 1 Fight from US - JP Day 2 - Arrival in Haneda Check in for JR rail pass and commuter pass (PASMO/ICOCA), Hotel &amp; E-SIM Shibuya + Pokemon Center Day 3 - Mt Fuji Ropeway + Bus ride back Asakusa + Tokyo Sky Tree + Pokemon Center Day 4 - Hokkaido by Flight from Haneda Otaru &amp; Sapporo + Pokemon Center in Chitose Airport Day 5 - Kyoto by Shinkansen from Tokyo Inari Taisha + Uji + Nishiki Market Day 6 - Kyoto Scenic Train Arashiyama Bamboo forest+ Ryoanji Garden + Pokemon Center in Kyoto+ Private bath house experience Day 7 - Osaka by Shinkansen from Kyoto Dotonburi + Namba Shopping + Pokemon Center Osaka Day 8 - Nara Day trip + Tsutenkaku Shopping + Sumo Hall Day 9 - Kobe Ropeway and Private Kobe beef experience Karaoke + Pachinko + Movie (TOHO Cinema) Day 10 - Tokyo by Shinkansen from Osaka 4 hr window of meeting family and friends there ... Back to US on same day due to time zone. I was able to check off all the listed things I want to see, do, eat and experience. I have double packed my luggage so that I don't need to get a new one there and no surprise I needed both. The summer heat is what I will call a \"Wet Heat\" equivalent to a steam room at gym but like for the whole day. Any cooling treatment will help. I didn't have a language barrier since I learned Japanese in highschool. This trip is a mix of solo and with my family members so I never felt alone , met new people that shared same hobbies and well deserved vacation from my workload."}
{"id": "0010", "text": "Just discovered this sub and decided to do a report on a short trip I took to Nagasaki last week. Going into it, I was mainly interested in Nagasaki for its history, from its founding as a Christian city by the Jesuits to its status as the primary gateway between the world and a closed-off Japan during the Edo period. That part was great as expected, but what I didn't expect was how gorgeous the city and nearby countryside were. The city is surrounded by mountains covered in lush green forests, which as a Tokyo resident was kind of mind-blowing. Kyushu has seen record flooding this year, and I think there was literally a typhoon passing by Kagoshima during my flight there, but miraculously we had beautiful (but very hot and humid) weather everywhere we went. I stayed at Hotel H2 Nagasaki, which was perfectly fine but nothing special. Breakfast definitely not worth it. Good location close to Hamamachi and Chinatown, where all the restaurants are. Day 1 (Atomic Bomb Stuff) * Arrived at Nagasaki Airport in the morning (on an Exeggutor themed plane!) and took the \\~40 min bus to Nagasaki Station. Fare is 1200 yen and IC cards (Suica, etc.) are accepted. * Friend arrived on a later flight, so while waiting I visited the Twenty-Six Martyrs Museum and Monument, built to commemorate a 1597 public execution of Christians by Hideyoshi. The museum is small with informative exhibits on the history of the incident and the Portuguese/Spanish mission in Japan more broadly. There was lots in English and other languages as I believe the site has been officially recognized by the Catholic Church (Popes Francis and John Paul II visited). * Met up with friend at her hotel and ate lunch at nearby Edo Bishi. Very homey place for Nagasaki Chinese food. We were literally served by two elementary school children who must have been on summer break. The signature dish of Nagasaki is champon, which is just a bunch of vegetables and seafood thrown on top of noodle soup, supposedly invented by a Chinese chef who wanted to provide poor Chinese students studying in Japan with something cheap and nutritious. I opted for its soupless variant (instead smothered in goopy sauce), called *sara udon* (literally \"noodles on a plate\"; it's not actually udon noodles), which was delicious. * Took the cute tram to the Atomic Bomb Museum. There aren't really any words to describe the experience or why you should go. If you're in Nagasaki for the first time, just go. It was smaller than I was expecting, took about 2 hours. After you're done it's a short stroll up to the Peace Park, where there's a memorial at the hypocenter with remnants of the original Urakami Cathedral, and further along the famous statue of the man pointing up with one hand to warn of the dangers of the bomb and sideways with the other to signify peace. * Walked a bit to the rebuilt Urakami Cathedral. Not much to see, but you can peek inside for free. On display is a haunting bust of the Virgin Mary that was exposed to the bomb. It looked so symbolic that at first I thought it was an art piece. * Bought some locally grown grapes at Iwanaga Fruits just across the street before hopping on a bus to Sanno Shrine (you get off at Sakamotomachi), where there is a famous torii gate standing on one leg after the other half was blown away by the blast, as well as two camphor trees which appeared totally dead after exposure to the bomb only to grow again into the giants they are today. The beautiful song Kusunoki by Masaharu Fukuyama (super celebrity born in Nagasaki) is about these two trees and was featured at this year's remembrance ceremony. * Back to the city center for dinner at El Dorado Mexican Restaurant &amp; Bar (lol). It was very good but obviously most tourists aren't going to come to Japan and eat Mexican food. I live in Tokyo, where it's relatively hard to find, so that's why I wanted to go. Day 2 (Shimabara) * Rented a car with Toyota and drove out to the Shimabara Peninsula, stopping at a small bakery Patisserie Boulangerie Pack along the way in Obama (!). Picked up a red-bean bun, nothing special but the grandma was nice. The whole drive was scenic. Stopped to get out at this viewing point overlooking terraced potato fields. * Arrived at Kuchinotsu for dolphin watching with Minamishimabara Dolphin Watching, booked online about a week prior. You have to check in at reception 20 minutes before departure. The group was fairly large so we split into two boats. Besides us and a group of Chinese tourists, it seemed like mostly local families with kids. Most of the \\~80 minutes was spent going farther out into the sea and then back again, but we were lucky enough to see a large pod of dolphins. There must have been at least 20 all swimming together very close to the boat. Unfortunately we didn't get to spend much time with them as we had to get back to port, but it was still an incredible experience. Summer is apparently the best time to spot dolphins, though, so I wonder what the average experience is like at other times of the year. * Lunch at nearby Kiyoka. This felt like a hidden gem and was probably my favorite meal of the trip. Unassuming building but we strolled in without a reservation and were shown to a private tatami room. Felt very traditional, the waitresses even do the thing where they kneel before opening the sliding door, and the menu consisted of those set meals where there's like a sampling of twenty different things. I got the \"Ladies' Set\" (around 2000 yen and you don't have to be a lady lol) which had nigiri (tuna, shrimp, egg), sashimi (octopus, salmon, hamo, etc.), dengaku (my favorite), and more. * Visit to the Arima Christian Heritage Museum, a modest local place exhibiting the history of Christianity in Japan in connection with the local warlord Arima Harunobu, one of the daimyo converts, and Hara Castle, the site of a bloody 1637 rebellion where many of the rebels were Christians. I don't remember there being any English. They were selling products from local businesses, and we got some neat biscuits supposedly made according to a traditional recipe from Santa Maria Island in the Azores that the Portuguese missionaries brought over. * Drove over to the Hara Castle Ruins but it seemed like there wasn't much to see and it was sweltering, so decided to just head back to Nagasaki. Stopped in Obama again, this time for delicious sorbet at R cinq famille. * Casual dinner at Asa made Udon. Nothing special but we got to try Got udon (hailing from the nearby Got Islands), which is much thinner than your typical Sanuki udon. Day 3 (Random City Stuff) * Ate breakfast at Cafe Hirai, an atmospheric little cafe serving hot sandwiches. I think I had the egg sandwich with a banana soy milk drink, both of which were good. One of the few non-fast food joints open early. * Spent a couple hours in Dejima, the artificial island where all the Dutch traders were sequestered during the Edo period. It's now a sort of historical park with recreated buildings and plenty of informative exhibits. We did an hour-long guided tour (free). The guide was clearly pretty new and wasn't the best public speaker, but he was doing his best so I didn't mind. As a history nerd I could've easily spent more time there, but my friend had a work thing so before splitting up we grabbed Chinese for lunch at Red Lantern inside the Dejima Wharf building. They of course had champon but I opted for congee, which was not bad. * On my own, I headed to ura Cathedral, one of the first churches built as Japan was opening up to the West and the oldest one still standing. There's not much to do inside the actual building but admire the architecture and listen to the spiel playing on the speakers (in Japanese). Most of your time will be spent in the adjacent museum introducing the history of Christianity in Japan. Of the three Christianity-related museums I visited, this one had the most noticeable Christian bent, whereas the other two had more of a neutral historical perspective. * Walked around the nearby Glover Garden, where you can tour the historic homes of prominent foreigners from the late 1800s. To be honest I thought this along with the ura Cathedral were skippable unless you have a particular interest in either, though admittedly I didn't go through the garden too thoroughly as it was very hot. * Cooled off in my hotel before heading toward Mt. Inasa for the night view, eating dinner along the way at Bibi Sushi, a revolving sushi place attached to a soccer stadium. Just walked in and it was pretty empty, but I assume that's because everyone was busy watching the game. Their specialties are local fish and fresh tuna that's never been frozen. You can never go wrong ordering the daily recommendations, which included fish I'd never seen before in Tokyo like *isaki*. They traditionally prefer white fish in Nagasaki, apparently. Everything was delicious, better than most revolving sushi places I've tried in Tokyo. I was alone and ate around 4000 yen worth, so the price is a step up from your Kura Sushi or Sushiro but so is the quality. * Walked over to the cable car station and rode it to the Mt. Inasa Overlook. Honestly if I went again I'd just take a bus up to the top. It wasn't crowded when I went (around 7 p.m.) but I still had to wait a bit, only to be crammed into a small cable car with no air conditioning. Yes, the view is nice, but you're going to see the view at the top regardless. On my way down the line was enormous, which would definitely not be worth it. The view from the mountain is nice, though. Unfortunately there were bright lights on top of the viewing deck so you can't see many stars. Day 4 (Sasebo) * Took an early bus to the airport and from there rented a car with Nippon Rent-A-Car. I reserved online, so just had to go up to the rental car counter in the arrivals area and let them know I was there, then they sent someone to pick us up, as the actual rental shop is across the bridge. * Drove up to Kujukushima (literally \"99 islands\") near Sasebo, which is part of the Saikai National Park. There we got on a cruise to tour the scenic coastline. There were many options, the most basic of which was a large ship like the \"pirate\" ship at Hakone, but we chose the smaller boat which fits around 15 people. Didn't make a reservation as you have to do that by the previous afternoon but there was space, probably because it was a weekday. The guide explains things you see along the way, and the boat can enter small inlets that the large one can't, where we saw tiny jellyfish swimming around. According to our guide, sometimes there's even boar and deer swimming from island to island. * Friend had an earlier flight so I dropped her off at the Saihi bus terminal next to Sasebo Station, from which a bus bound directly for the airport departs, then tried a Sasebo burger, the local specialty owing to American influence from the naval base there, at C&amp;B Burgers. I'm not a huge burger person but it was worth a try. * Headed back to Kujukushima and visited the aquarium, which you get a small discount for if you show them your cruise ticket. Though small, it stood out to me precisely because it focuses on showcasing aquatic life from the surrounding area rather than just gathering popular and impressive species. There were also lots of cute handwritten notes by the staff. The big draws are the dolphin show (which they weren't running as the dolphins needed rest), sea turtles, and many species of local jellyfish. * I had a lot of time to spare (flight wasn't until 9), so I took in some breathtaking views of the island-dotted coastline and the city with naval vessels going in and out of the harbor from Tenkaiho and Yumiharidake, just two of many observation decks in the area. The former was better for looking out over the islands, while the latter offered a better view of the city. * Had my first pide (not a lot of Turkish food where I grew up) at King's Kitchen before driving back to the airport. Owner was a funny guy. Everyone there was speaking English. Overall, I loved Nagasaki and it's definitely one of my favorite destinations in Japan now. The two primary reasons I travel are to see history and nature, and it is top quality in both regards. In the future I hope to check out Hirado, the hot springs at Unzen, and maybe if I'm feeling adventurous, the Got Islands or Tsushima."}
{"id": "0011", "text": "my boyfriend and I just spent two weeks (12 full days of exploration, considering the travel time) in tokyo and osaka. we also did a day trip to kyoto, which was lovely. after visiting, i wanted to post about my experiences in hopes of providing some insight for those of you looking to travel to japan in the future! at the end of the post, ill include a day-to-day itinerary of our adventures. we did minimal planning, just general cultural research in preparation. we stayed at the hotel metropolitan edmont in iidabashi in tokyo. this hotel was downright lovely. it was affordable, but so nice. iidabashi is a super quiet neighborhood, so if youre looking to be in the middle of the action, i dont recommend, but it suited us well. lots of eateries and train stations close by. we were more central in osaka, at the luxcare hotel in tenmabashi. definitely a different vibe from our tokyo hotel, but still good. the location was super convenient overall. we took the metro absolutely everywhere. for context, i lived in nyc and have used the metro in various american and european cities, so i felt very confident navigating. the tokyo metro was a breeze imo. super intuitive and easy to use. a suica card is a MUST! it will get you everywhere you need to go - dont even consider paying for another pass, IC covers it all. the osaka metro was a bit more confusing for us. i think it came down to signage and odd station layouts, but we always figured it out in the end. it was obviously super hot, as our visit was mid-late august. i do not recommend visiting this time of year, ill be honest. we made do - were from north carolina so the weather just felt like home, but we spent many afternoon hours in our hotel room and found ourselves ducking into stores to find a respite from the heat. an umbrella, fan, and lots of water are non-negotiables. if you do visit in the summer, rely on museums and other indoor activities to save yourself from the relentless sun, take afternoon siestas, and go out at night. we did do a day trip in kyoto, and if i were to change one thing, it would be the amount of nights we stayed in osaka. dont get me wrong, it was a super interesting and much more diverse city (from what i saw) than tokyo, but 7 nights werent necessary. i maybe would have opted for 5 and done a couple nights in kyoto. as youll see in the itinerary below, we did all the main tourist spots. this was our first visit and they felt obligatory. the next time we visit, well hit smaller, more niche spots. to our credit, we ate at lots of holes in the wall. dont shy away from eating at local spots!!! ofc keep an eye out for those rare hostile tourists unwelcome signs, but in my experience, people are friendly and most restaurants have qr code or tablet ordering. there was definitely awkwardness and minor faux pas along the way, especially in restaurant settings - i feel like thats to be expected. we occasionally leaned on google translate but overall we were able to communicate without issue, regardless of language barriers. an example of faux pas on our parts: we often like to grab a snack between meals and share something, especially when its a new food item weve never tried before. we didnt realize until the end of our trip that its considered rude to order one plate for two people. we were corrected by staff and urged to order a second item, and did so without issue. we just didnt realize this was a thing! a final note on osaka: sooo many more gaijin/tourists than tokyo. i was not expecting this! europeans were around every corner. i also found myself getting lots of more stares in osaka. i didnt once notice anyone staring at me in tokyo, but almost from the get-go, i clocked it in osaka. i dont care to read into why they were staring or what the social context is, i just observed this as a difference between the two cities. general tips: get international phone service for the month of your visit or an esim - its a lifesaver. dont get too attached to your plans and account for a rest day / a nap here and there. a suica/ic card is 100% necessary. always carry cash - you may end up using your credit card a lot, but carry it anyway. learn the basic phrases (arigatgozaimasu, sumimasen, gomen nasai) - they will take you far. look up restaurant etiquette. be mindful of social norms and be quiet in public (there are exceptions like izakayas, but im talking about public transit and the average restaurant). day 1 - 7-11 and jet lag. we landed around 9 the night before, got our hotel, and tried to sleep, but made the mistake of sleeping on the plane. if you land in the evening, try to stick it out and stay away. i was a mess this day and got actually sick. a mid-afternoon bath rejuvenated me and we ventured back out in the evening for a gyoza dinner. day 2 - explored the imperial palace grounds and went to akihabara in the evening. visited the 10-story yodobashi camera and super potato. conveyor belt sushi for dinner. day 3 - shibuya - record shopping, many stores, and the hachiko statue. shinjuku - kabukicho and golden gai. we went into an empty bar on a corner with no cover charge and 700 drinks. the man running the place played us guitar and gave me a cigarette. indian for lunch. yakitori for dinner. day 4 - senso-ji temple and karaoke. dinner at an izakaya. day 5 - last day in tokyo. back to shinjuku. art museum, views from the government building, and a rest in chuo park. korea town and a lovely bonchon dinner. thrifting in harajuku. day 6 - fly to osaka (we probably could have taken a bus or train, but oh well, this worked for us). pizza and a shoeless smoke-friendly izakaya. day 7 - universal studios. day 8 - osaka castle (but i lowkey overheated so we didnt stick around long). dontonbori. takoyaki and okonamiyaki for dinner. drinks and cigs by the water. day 9 - kyoto. temples, views, markets. sushi and green tea ice cream for lunch. burger king for dinner LOL. day 10 - history museum. beef bowls, unagi, and natto for lunch. shinsekai - rainy and so hot / humid i almost crashed out. sichuan noodles and a shared kebab for dinner. day 11 - private hot spring at an onsen (this ran us 7,200. pricier than a normal onsen, but i have tattoos and we didnt want to be separated for the experience). yakiniku for lunch. izakaya hopping in the evening. day 12 - last day. taiwanese breakfast. kaiyukan, ferris wheel, more okonomiyaki. early night and home the next day! if you want any specifics or recommendations, feel free to ask in the comments! the post was long enough so i limited myself lol. thanks for reading :-)"}
{"id": "0012", "text": "While planning for our own 3-week Jul 25 Japan trip recently, I found many of the commentary and advice from this reddit chain useful, so this is just my own contribution back as a travel report. Im a bit of a travel planning junkie so I wrote a 10,000 plus word trip record and kept a record of all spending transactions for this entire trip because Im crazy - so I have a lot of details around the trip recorded. We travelled with a group of 70s, 50s and 20s. We stayed in AirBnb in Tokyo and Osaka mainly because we find that our AirBnb fitted our needs better than hotels as a large group of various age groups. We travel on a good value budget basis. I am happy to answer any follow up questions. Heres our itinerary Day 1 Arrival - Arrived Sat night into Narita, used an airport transfer, and checked into our AirBnb Day 2 Asakusa Dressed up for some folks, hung around Asakusa, attended the Tanabata (star festival) street festival on Kappanboshi street. Rested in the afternoon. Attended the Samurai Ninja Museum and shopped around Asakusa in the late evening. Day 3 Harajuku &amp; Shibuya - mainly shopping and visited the Cat alley Day 4 Pokemon Caf and Ginza - best way to get reservations to Pokemon Caf turned out to be to check the night before at between 8.00 pm to 10.00 pm which we successfully did. This was only Japanese activity I failed to get a way advanced reservation despite actively trying before we arrive in Japan. Shopped in Ginza for clothing at Uniqlo flagship etc. Day 5 Ghibli Museum travelled to Shirohige's Cream Puff Factory to get Ghibli theme food to set the mood and then to Ghibli Museum for noon entry. Izakaya dinner for everyone. Day 6 Akihabara and Ikebukuro rest day for some, rest did cosplay and anime shopping at Akihabara and Ikebukuro. Day 7 Enoshima &amp; Kamakura booked a day trip to Enoshima and Kamakura. At Enoshima, we visited the Imaya caves, then took the tram to Komachi Street. Visited the Tsurugaoka Hachmangu shrine and the Giant Buddha at Kamakura too. Day 8 TeamLabs visited the Team Labs Borderless in the morning and spent some time at Aazbudai Hills food market and finished some late shopping in Akihabara. Day 9 Travel to Osaka took the Shinkansen to Osaka and then checked into our AirBnb. Visited the Kuromon market and then had dinner at Shinsekai Day 10 Osaka visited the Lion Head Namba Jika shrine, walked through the Namba area to get some food including the Rikuro cheesecake. Visited the Hezon-ji Temple before having a street food lunch at the Dontobori area, including taking photos of the Glico Man in a dedicated area. Then headed north to Americura for some second hand clothing shopping (a standout activity in Japan). Had the famous ice cream hot dog which was very above expectation. Ended at Pokemon Osaka in Shinsaibashi and then back to the AirbnB Day 11 Kyoto &amp; Arashiyama took an early local train to Arashiyama Bamboo Forest. Then climbed the Arashiyama Monkey Park before having lunch at the Arashiyama Rilakkuma Caf. Took cabs to Kinkaku-ji (Golden Pavilion). Then took cabs to our hotel in Kyoto for our 2 night stay. Attended the evening performance at Gion Corner. Day 12 Kyoto after breakfast headed to Kiyomizu-dera. Then walked to Kodai-ji temple. Next walked past the Maruyama Park before ending up at Yasaka temple. We then had lunch, visited the Nisihiki market, had a brief stop at Pokemon Kyoto and finally visited the Museum of Kyoto. For dinner we visited the food street market for Gion Matsuri (the Kyoto Summer festival). Day 13 Kyoto attended the Gion Matsuri parade though it rained heavily all day which dampened down the festivities. After lunch we took the local train back to our Airbnb in Osaka. Day 14 Osaka Expo Day We planned and scenario built Osaka Expo extensively via Excel of course, its not an activity I would recommend to just rock up without planning. We left early to get to our 9.00 am entry, but only managed to get in around 9.40 am. For myself I ended up doing this in sequence (with no real successful reservations that day). Japan Pavilion &gt; German Pavilion -&gt; South Korean Pavilion -&gt; Singapore Pavilion -&gt; Hungary Pavilion -&gt; Oman Pavilion -&gt; Qatar Pavilion -&gt; UAE Pavilion -&gt; Day Time Water Show -&gt; Future City Pavilion -&gt; Spain Pavilion -&gt; Earth At Night Pavilion -&gt; Malaysia Pavilion -&gt; Night Water Show -&gt; Drone Show -&gt; Swiss Pavilion. Some of our group did less, one of our group did 5+ more. Main ones I did different from the others were the Australia Pavilion and the China Pavilion, while I tried 3-4 times unsuccessfully to get same day reservations at kiosk. Day 15 Nara Slower pace day to recover from Osaka Expo Day. Took the train to Nara and visited the Kofuuji Temple and the surrounding complex. Then spend a bit of time at Nara Deer Park feeding the deer. Took a short break at the free Yoshikien Garden before heading to the lantern centric Kasuga Taisha Shrine. We skipped the Todai-ji shrine. Then headed back to the Airbnb. Day 16 Miyajima &amp; Hiroshima took the shinkansen to Hiroshima and then the local ferry across to Miyajima island. Walked to the Itsukushima Torii gates (it was low tide), then visited the Daisho-in temple. Got some exclusive Rilakkuma merchandise at the Omotesand Shopping Street. Then had a Anago lunch with fried oysters. Both Anago (Sea eel) and Oysters are good food to try out at the island. Then took a direct ferry back to Hiroshima and visited the Hiroshima Peace Museum, the Memorial Park and the Dome. Then visited the Pokemon Hiroshima Center at the Hiroshima station before heading back to the Airbnb Day 17 Ghibli Park Day took an early Shinkansen to Nagoya and then two local trains Ghibli Park. One of us is a huge studio Ghibli park fan so this was a must do in Japan .We had the premium tickets so did all the park related activity, lots of photos were taken that day more details can be shared. And then took the long 3 hour journey home when the park is nearly closed. Others who didnt join us visited the Osaka Castle instead. Day 18 Himeji &amp; Kobe we took a Shinkansen to Himeiji Castle and spent a couple of hours there before taking another Shinkansen to Kobe for lunch at the Kobe Steakland. Then we walked around Kobe Chinatown a bit before heading back to Osaka for dinner at the Namba area. Day 19 Universal Studios Japan some of us were keen to visit Super Nintendo World, so we left early. Official opening hour that day was 8.30 am but it opened at 8.00 (that's normal and expected) and we ended up at Super Nintendo World by 8.10 am without any Fast pass or the like. The most ambitious of our group managed to get onto the following rides all before 2.00 pm, in roughly this order. Mario Kart -&gt; The Flying Dinosaur (multiple times that day) -&gt; Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey -&gt; Hollywood Dreams -&gt; Jurassic Park -&gt; Jaws -&gt; Minion Mayhem -&gt; Spy X Family XR Ride -&gt; Flight of the Hippogriff. Basically every thrill ride except for the new Donkey Kong Ride (which had a 3 hour wait time by 8.30 am!). We also did all the decent shows like Waterworld, Dorameon 4D, Sing and the Monster Rock mostly a good choice to hide from the heat. We finished and left the park around 6.00 pm. Day 20 Osaka -&gt; last full day for us in Osaka, so after we arranged for some luggage to ship to our Tokyo hotel, I ended up at the Shitennoji Temple to get a taste of the Tenjin Matsuri. Also walked the tenshindori-suji arcade shop which had at least a dozen temple carrying parades go through there in preparation of the following days proper Matsuri Tenjin which we will miss. Then back to Airbnb for our journey back to Tokyo. Had a sukiyaki dinner. Day 21 Tokyo -&gt; arrive via Shinkanesen in the morning to check into our Tokyo hotel next to the Tokyo Station. Did some last minute shopping around the area and a sushi dinner. Day 22 Last day in Japan -&gt; Headed to Ueno to visit the Tokyo National Museum, then off to Narita airport and getting last minute exclusive Pokemons from Narita Airport for our evening flight out of Japan. This ended our 3 week holiday in Japan. Most days we started early but finished not too late in light of the age and fitness of our group. I built in some flexibility in our schedule (despite what it seems from the itinerary above) and we were not too stressed if we missed out certain activities. We treated the heat in July with respect but it wasnt an impossible challenge. If you have any questions or thoughts, I am happy to help and respond to them. Hope you have a great trip in Japan yourselves."}
{"id": "0013", "text": "**3-Week Japan Travel Itinerary/Report (May 18 June 6, 2025)** This May/June, my girlfriend and I traveled through Japan for three weeks together with another couple. Id love to share our itinerary and travel experiences with you. Its a fairly factual overview, mainly intended to give a general idea of what there is to do and what is feasible in a day. I dont review everything in detail, but we honestly enjoyed almost everythingunless I specifically mention otherwise. Feel free to ask about any specific experiences or practical tips, tho! **Day 1 (Sunday, May 18)** * Arrival in Tokyo. Arrival around 2 PM at Narita airport. * By train and Yamanote line to our apartment in Shinjuku. * To Senso-ji and the Sanja Matsuri festival in Asakusa. We were lucky to be there exactly on the final day of this annual festival in Tokyo. (Every third weekend of May). * Ended the evening in Kabukicho/Golden Gai (walking distance from our apartment). **Day 2 (Monday, May 19)** * Meiji shrine + inner garden * Yoyogi park (We had planned to go there on Saturday or Sunday, as its said to be very lively on weekends. Due to a problem with our flight, we only arrived in Tokyo on Sunday afternoon, so that didnt work out. On Monday the park was very quiet). * Harajuku (including Takeshita street) * Shibuya crossing * Akihabara **Day 3 (Tuesday, May 20)** * Kappabashi dori * Ueno park * Ueno Toshogu shrine * Tokyo national museum * Shinobazuno pond benten * Ameyokocho market * Walk through Nezu and Yanaka (nicely quiet after a day in the crowds). * Nezu Shrine * Dinner in Omoide Yokocho **Day 4 (Wednesday, May 21)** * Shinjuku Gyoen * Yokohama (Minato Mirai and China Town) * Football match Yokohama F. Marinos Vissel Kobe **Day 5 (Thursday, May 22)** * Imperial palace / Kokyo gaien * Tsukiji fish market * Grand Sumo tournament in the Ryogoku Kokugikan. One of the highlights of the trip. Totally into sumo ever since. See my earlier comment about the experience. * Tokyo Skytree. One of the few less enjoyable experiences that generally felt a bit like a tourist trap. The view was quite nice, but we were a bit late so it was already getting dark. Also, it was very crowded and we had to wait a long time to get up and especially to get back down. **Day 6 (Friday, May 23)** * Start of a 4-day road trip through the Japanese Alps. * Arakurayama Sengen Park / Chureito Pagoda. We hoped to see Fuji, but unfortunately it was hidden in the mist so not visible. * Drove on to Matsumoto. Visit to Matsumoto Castle. * Stay in a Ryokan hotel with onsen, traditional Kaiseki meal. **Day 7 (Saturday, May 24)** * Hiking in the beautiful Kamikochi (Chubu Sangaku National Park) * Dinner in Takayama * Overnight stay in Shirakawa-go **Day 8 (Sunday, May 25)** * Enjoying the beautiful famous houses in Shirakawa-go and the slightly further located Gokayama. * Continuation of the road trip to Kanazawa, overnight stay in Kanazawa **Day 9 (Monday, May 26)** * Traditional tea ceremony * Kenroku-garden * Kanazawa castle * Final part of road trip from Kanazawa to Kyoto **Day 10 (Tuesday, May 27)** * Arashiyama Bamboo grove. Quite beautiful but small and very crowded. The bamboo forest on Mt. Inari was much more impressive. * Nishiki market * Gion (Sannenzaka, Ninenzaka, Yasaka pagoda, Yasaka shrine). * Fushimi Inari Taisha. We didnt just stay on the main path but also took the hidden trail and we loved it. Very beautiful bamboo forest. At the top of Mount Inari a great view over Kyoto by night. **Day 11 (Tuesday, May 28)** * Nijo castle * By Shinkansen from Kyoto to Fukuyama and from there a local train to Onomichi. Great to enjoy an ekiben bought at the train station along the way. **Day 12 (Wednesday, May 29)** * Shimanami Kaido! With rented road bikes from Onomichi across islands and bridges through the Seto Inland Sea to Imabari on Shikoku. Very cool for people who enjoy sporty activities like ourselves. **Day 13 (Thursday, May 30)** * Trip from Imabari to Hiroshima * Peace memorial park / Atomic dome / Peace memorial Hall + museum. Impressive.. **Day 14 (Friday, May 31)** * We flew from Hiroshima to Okinawa where we stayed for 3 nights. Unfortunately the weather was disappointing so we didnt do much there, but we did relax. **Day 17 (Tuesday, June 3)** * Flight from Okinawa to Osaka. * Baseball match Orix Buffaloes Hiroshima Carps. **Day 18 (Wednesday, June 4)** * Osaka castle * Kuromon market * Shinsekai * Tsutenkaku Tower * Dotonbori street **Day 19 (Thursday, June 5)** * Osaka 2025 world expo. See my earlier review. * ROR comedy club. **Day 20 (Friday, June 6)** * Traditional Bunraku performance at the National Bunraku theatre. * Return flight from Osaka back home. **General experiences/impressions** An amazing trip through a beautiful and diverse country with rich culture, history, stunning nature, buzzing modern cities, calm parks, beautiful gardens, friendly people and delicious food. Love the food markets, love the konbinis, LOVE the izakayas. Our travel pace was high and it was definitely not a relax vacation. But overall it was doable. For fit and active travelers this schedule is feasible, for people who prefer a slower pace it might be (too) intense. Hopefully this helps you in planning your own trip and feel free to ask me anything youd like to know!"}
{"id": "0014", "text": "With money from my summer internship flooding in, I decided well in advance to see the sakura in April for peak Japan. A full budget breakdown will be at the end including a link to the Spreadsheet I used to track my expenses. This was a solo trip I began planning for 8 months. I tend to overplan before cutting stuff out in the moment. This is going to be very in depth, so strap in and grab some popcorn if you want to tuck in! Day -1: Flying nonstop MSP to HND was ~$1500 for regular Economy. I have my classic drink order: Woodford Reserve whiskey to sleep lol **Day 0: High Table**: Landing in Haneda (HND), it took just 30 minutes from getting off the plane to leaving customs with my backpack and checked luggage. I reserved a 3GB Pocket WiFi from NinjaWiFi like always, which was plenty for solo travelling and using Google Maps every other moment. I used Timeshifter to help minimize my jet lag, which did help!! I also had melatonin with me as well to ensure my best chances of being jet lagged for not that long. I reserved a Gran Class ticket (to be used later) with my JR Rail Pass at the JR East Travel Center, and got some free chopsticks, neat! I wandered around Haneda Airport Garden but wasnt too impressed. LODGING, which I booked for my whole March 31 - April 12 stay: Pegasus Hostel. 200 USD total via AirBnB. While the hostel was a little cramped, and you have to carry luggage up stairs, the in unit (I forgot if it was coin operated) laundry and free WiFi is nice to have, and I was more than happy given how cheap the accommodation was. The receptionist mainly speaks Mandarin, so my Cantonese did not really work, and we made do with English and Google Translate which had no issues. Let me tell ya, this hostel is a sleeper pick location-wise!! You are &lt;5 min away walking from Asakusabashi Station, ONE stop away from Akihabara, ONE train ride to-from HND if you take Keisei thru line to the Asakusa Line, and a more involved walk to Bakuroch Station. There is a FamilyMart and 7-Eleven within a 2 minute walk, along with Naruto Taiyaki Honpo Asakusabashi shop for a nice evening Taiyaki. There is a caveat though, taking the Chuo Line from here is almost always super busy, and the stations east exit is a little cramped, so I would not recommend it as much if you have more than 1 rolling luggage. I ate supper over in Akihabara at Wako Tonkatsu Akiba 8th Floor, as PremierTwo recommended it, quite nice and super filling! I would need this to prepare my liver for HIGHLIGHT: Bar BenFiddich. I had to reserve this in advance, and I felt ultra intimidated being in such a curated and intimate space. I felt small in my expansive seat, as I was seated right in front of Hiroyasu Kayama himself! I got to see him make most of the drinks ordered in that 2 hour slot, and it was magical. I had to wrack my imagination for drink orders since this place has no menu. He put me at ease, and made 3 cocktails that I will never forget. *Scotch? + Passion fruit w/ Muscat Liquor, chocolate?, and fennel sprinkles* My request: something using the muscat grape. He blowtorched the top?! WHAT. But it was a brilliant gradient of flavor. *Japanese Gin w/ Lavender Distilled Water* My request: something floral. Its perfectly fragrant, topped with a sprig of lavender. Its wavy in the sense of winds going over a lavender field. *Chery Brandy + Drouet Cognac VS Grande Champagne* My request: a warm hug on a cold snowing day. He then makes this HOT tiny dainty signature cocktail, which was literally on fire at some point. WHAT. It was right on point with my abstract request, and my only regret was that I could not finish it because 3 drinks would put me to sleep. I am a lightweight, 6 2, 160 lbs, half white (Germany + Wales), half Chinese, and 2 drinks is enough to make me drunk. I needed to make sure I could take the train back to my hostel lmaooo Step Count: roughly 9k steps **Day 1: Eyes Up**: Its April Fools Day, so I did not sleep great, only sleeping 11-3-5-6? The rain in the morning was not welcome. Maybe it being April Fools was unrelated. I ate breakfast at Kameido Gusto (decent, but wouldve preferred a konbini) before buying a shirt from Work Land. I got new glasses at Jins (Akihabara Yodobashi Camera), but it took 2 days of having a mental breakdown before I started liking the glasses lmaoooo. Lunch was at Tokyo Metropolitan Government Buildings Cafeteria bc I make it a consistent staple to eat there once per Japan trip. The curry was good, but the cafe pastry left much to be desired. I bought souvenirs at Shinjuku Marui Annex before walking to Shinjuku Gyoen National Garden which was not that busy due to the light rain throughout the whole day. I sauntered into Omotesando but did not buy anything there. I took the train back, and it stopped for several minutes, an odd occurrence My night ends with a mashup supper of a 7-Eleven onigiri, a FamilyMart fried chicken, and some dried persimmons before going to SAKE street nearby for a flight of sweet sake. 14.5k steps **Day 2: PremierMe**: After a crisp 9 hours of sleep, Im up for breakfast at Ootoya. HIGHLY RECOMMEND! For only 600 JPY, I got red rice, miso soup, chicken, and unlimited drinks. A killer breakfast set for basically $4 USD. Once again, my train stops in the middle of the line huh. I spend a fair amount of time taking Shinkansen pictures from the Nippori Stations North Bridge before trying to find cats at Yanaka Ginza. The rain eventually stops, but not before I get some gelato and a latte from Guru Guru. The Yanaka Cemetery is a great place to visit. A stroll around leads to some peaceful adages, loads of sakura, and the rare stray cat. Another train down to Ueno leads to plenty of souvenirs, shaved ice, and lunch at Uo Tsuka: full of oysters, ikura-don, and a sweet sake to pair with the seafood. I eventually end up at Ishibashiinari Shrine where I adjust my itinerary until loud bells begin ringing. Its 3PM, and a ceremony of sorts seems to be happening. I bask in the loud noises, before I drop off my purchases at my hostel. Following a few of the steps that PermierTwo took in his 2024 Meguro walk and talk, I witness the sakura festival at Naka-Meguro! Stopping at Kura Sushi for supper, I go to the raised crossing that is the inspiration for the location where Akane Kurokawa is saved by Aqua Hoshino in Oshi no Ko Season 1. A bit of a trek from the station, but nothing unusual. I stop at Travelers Factory, a haven for stationary lovers, although I only buy a small notebook refill there. Next is SLOWJAM GARAGE for a sakura highball, where somehow I feel a brief and fleeting sense of community. I get a bit more food, some gyoza at Ohka the Bestdays. Last stop of the day was Bar Panorma Ginza, which fun fact: is not located in Ginza. A pain to find, but once you enter you are in a textbook otaku paradise. No no, not for anime. Trains! The bulk of the floorplan is taken up by the lovely trainset! A shinkansen zips around. A local train whirs past, and there are more model trains on the walls! All of the drinks are train line themed, you HAVE to order the Yamanote Line drink if you like sweet and/or melon. To unwind, I went to Akihabara because I found a Taiko machine cheaper than all the others how? I got 3 songs per play instead of 2 ohohoho it is #MusicMaxxing time! I would do this most nights I like combining violence (hitting a drum) with music (anime openings). 20.3k steps **Day 3: A Simple Meal**: I didn't sleep that long, which was okay because I spent 6 hours in Akihabara! I got Pork Belly Curry for lunch at Hinoya Curry before spending 2x retail price on a countryside Miku figurine at a crane game, oof. I popped into Yusha Kobo which is a super cool physical keyboard shop. Yeah, youre better off buying it all online, but its nice to see and test the keyboards and switches yourself!~ I waltz on over to Shibuya, and I immediately get lost. Not in the station, but in the basement department store of Shibuya Mark City. I swear, every department store could use better wayfinding, but Ill live. I eventually found Kageyamarou to have some soba for supper! A perfect fuel for the drinks I am about to indulge in, I get out on the streets, and whats that? PLAYERS by YOASOBI is playing! I am so elated, I saunter, skip, and dance my way down the street to LOST Bar. I enjoy the April Cocktail: License to Chill, Like a Magic Mule, and the cracker-cheese plate! I push myself to eat it all, even if I accidentally stalled my appetite oops lol my greed tends to get the best of me &gt;~&gt; 10.4k steps **Day 4: A-S-O So Much Volcano**: It is time to be ambitious! I take a 7AM flight down to Kumamoto, with a rental car in wait, ready to drive towards Aso. No, there were no Pikachu plushies in the vending machines, very sad. I was amazed security took only 1 minute AND I could bring water through security??? America could never. I miss spotting Mt Fuji from the plane which is very sad, but I was about to see more mountains! The rental kei car was awesome! Getting &gt;50 mpg, taking only &lt;10 seconds on ignition for it to recognize and automatically play music from my iPad, and the snazzy gps. Oooo, now this is a nice upgrade from my Chevy Spark. While it was only 57F outside, it was warm coming from Minnesota~. Ozu Roadside Station was filled with samples aplenty, so ofc I had to buy some Ube Cheesecake, which was the tastiest thing I sampled there. I try horse meat in a bun at Michi no Eki Aso, and I even get to glimpse the Seven Stars of Kyushu train there! Next up is Milk Factory for some cheese on soft serve, before winding up to Daikambo Lookout Point. Something worth mentioning is that even on these mountainy roads, everyone is going 10-20 kmph over the speed limit. A brief visit to Meoto Falls, preps me for the quaint town of Kurokawa Onsen. Did I go there because it shared a last name with my favorite anime character in *Oshi no Ko*? Yes. Did I also go there because of the nice onsens? Yes. LODGING: Yamamizuki. I splurged 40480 JPY for a night here with their seasonal kaiseki meals. There is so much info, so I am shaking with worry, but this time I do not get an anxiety attack trying to put on my yukata! I take a quick bath before I see my FIVE COURSE KAISEKI and another portion laid out in front of me. Because the room was for 2, there were 2 portions (next breakfast would only have 1 though), so I got extras of the real good stuff~! There was so much food, all so good, this was well worth the steep cost! I go back into the onsen before I fall asleep to the river noises beyond my window. 7.2k steps **Day 5: POP IN 2**: Waking up at 5AM means that I get to take an early bath! There were two tourists speaking Cantonese in the bath so I *had to* reply back in Cantonese (bc my mother is from Guangzhou). The two men were stunned, and I will forever grin at their shocked expressions. Breakfast was plentiful, and I finished the last bit of sake before I *pop in 2* the tourist center in town to buy a couple towels and a pouch to carry them in. Driving down to Takachiho, I park at the Eki store after checking that parking by the gorge is all full. Its just about walkable (downhill is okay, its uphill thats rough) over to my reservation for HIGHLIGHT: Rowboat in Takachiho Gorge! Its genuinely quite beautiful, you get to be tens of feet deep as you maneuver yourself along the black rock and falling water. I spy a local shop on my way walking up, where I got some dango with walnut sauce and an orange-mango swirl soft serve! Whats up with soft serve? I guess America is also a fan of soft serve in fast food and such, but is there any reason why Japan likes soft serve too? Let me know! Next is the freshwater aquarium, a nice quaint place with a sturgeon, an axolotl, and more! I chose this area because its where *Oshi no Ko* begins! I **just missed** the Oshi no Ko Season 2 x Takachiho collab event, but thankfully a couple places still had merch left! Around this time, I have a mental breakdown because I bought the Onsen Pass at Kurokawa Onsen and have yet to use it, so I hastily drive back to Kurokawa to use of the pass at Sanga Ryokan for the baths and a fruit drink. It starts raining on my parade back to Kumamoto, and then I make a minor mistake at KMJ. I accidentally bought frozen basashi instead of fresh, and I threw it out because I did not have facilities at my hostel to work with it. Curse me being rushed and not wanting to say no to the shopkeep. I still slept an hour on the flight though! 8.5k steps **Day 6: TOP LINE, TOP CLASS**: I lost that Gran Class ticket I booked ;-; so I had to buy a new one At least Gran Class is SUPER CUSHY. Free slippers, water, Katsuyama Ken Sake, a small meal? It was so nice, I even did some homework on the train to Morioka. But the train of bad news does not stop only there. Turns out I LEFT my Apple Pencil on the train. After anxiously waiting with the staff, I was told to check back with the Sendai staff (as Id be there in 2 hours). At least Morioka Station had heat lamps, that was nice. Plus I had a cheap and swift lunch at Soba no Hana. As per the staff in Sendai, it turns out my Apple Pencil went all the way to Hakodate. Thats not good. Because I booked a hostel, the receptionist wanted me to be there on arrival to pay for the delivery, and I could not make that happen with what I had reserved but wait! I will be in Kusatsu Onsen for a night, I can have them deliver it there! We communicated, and in a few days I will have my Apple Pencil again; the cornerstone to a third of all of the college notes Ive written (bc paper notes take up physical space). Sadly, this meant I could not do anything in Sendai EXCEPT for a load of food stalls in the station plaza?! I gaze around before it settles on a booth with alcohol. I sample some local sake and wine? You heard that right, grape wine! This was a welcome surprise because I just started getting into wine this year. Now onto Utsunomiya! Im here thanks to Jake Valiane's video on the city citing its notably hospitable bartenders. I peeped a shinkansen barrel through the station, before I spotted a lil light rail, just like home (minus the bullet train). Supper was decided to be a local specialty: gyoza! Coined in by the dog encased in one inside Utsunomiya Station, I head to 365 Gyoza Bar for some delectable gyoza. I have to admit, I am pretty ambivalent to dumpling-like things of [thing] encased in [carb casing], but those were nice! LODGING: Utsunomiya Tobu Hotel Grande. A really cheap hotel accessible by bus from the train station, I had a whole room with nice amenities. There was also a newspaper vending machine? I suppose people still read those. I used to once when I worked at a gas station in All-There-Is-Is-Corn, Minnesota. As someone who can only have 2 standard drinks maximum to not be sedated like someone shot by a tranquilizer, I had to choose my bar time carefully. Do I go to one bar having 2 drinks or two bars having 1 drink? I chose the one bar strat. In Bar Juice, we have a lovely bartender! He can speak good English, and we talked about our lives before a couple came in. This was a Sunday night, so the four of us shot the shit as I indulged in a seasonal strawberry cocktail and a matcha cocktail so me and the couple ordered the same two cocktails! This was perfect, not at all pretentious, and I would genuinely go here every night if I lived in the same city. The price was decent, the table charge snack plentiful, and I got a branded small set of matches to take home! 16k steps. **Day 7: Sake Country**: Turns out I keep yapping so I will try to summarize oops. Its a huge reach of the day, taking the shinkansen from Utsunomiya to Gala Yuzawa to Niigata to Tokyo in one day! Gala Yuzawa is relevant so I can see snow, go into a small onsen, enjoy the footbath by Yuzawa Station, get complimented on my Japanese, and enjoy the sake vending machines inside the station! Niigata is obvious: Sake. I toured Imayotsukasa Sake Brewery and chatted with someone travelling from Finland! We enjoy the Niigata Station sake vending machines together before we go our own ways. Tokyo is back but so is Shinjuku?! HUUUUUH? Thats right, I got a 2nd reservation for Bar BenFiddich at 11PM. Drink 1 is something herbal: Wrymwood Gimlet. Drink 2 features Japanese ingredients: Smooth Matcha Old Fashioned. That cocktail was genuinely perfect, a touch of walnut liquor and coconut water making is extremely easy to drink. I would actually drink one every night if I could. Since me and a couple nearby were chatty, I got to try a Fernet and Bar BenFiddichs Absinthe. I absolutely will return again. Lodging: Shinjuku Nikka. Here for something super cheap, a walkable distance, and easily accessed when the trains have stopped running. 14.6k steps. **Day 8: Wine Country**: By this point, I have successfully paid off the 7 Day Japan Rail Pass! You know what that means? Time to take a convenient Limited Express to the local Chuo Line to Katsunumabudokyo Station. A lovely trip, passing by the maglev shinkansen test track, we arrive at loads of vineyards and sakura! Super scenic!! This is a guaranteed HIGHLIGHT with how pretty the station looks in April. I spend time in Budou no Okas wine cave to indulge and sample on locally made wine~ I head on back and rest in my bed before eating mackerel ramen at Seafudou. Mmm, fish. I walk to Jimbocho to buy some doujins for me and a friend, walk to Ochanomizu for the train photospot, and walk next door to Akihabara. I spend more time playing Taiko no Tatsujin, and I drink a Sapporo before I sleep. 13.7k steps. **Day 9: Warm Sulfur Town**: I meet up with a friend and her mom at Ueno so we can take the JR Kusatsu Limited Express train + bus up to Kusatsu Onsen! By this point, I have not only paid off the Rail Pass, but the Green Car version. Thats right, I bought the Green Car version of the 7 Day Japan Rail Pass. I wanted to ensure I got guaranteed seats since I noticed that some trains were completely full when I went to Japan the month prior with my parents. LODGING: Kusatsu Onsen Eiyada! I have dinner there before I walk around town with my friend, going into baths along the way. I sleep to some Japanese TV. 9.5k steps. **Day 10: Cheesy Nightlife**: I see my friend off as she flies back this afternoon, and think over my plans as I go into the 4 increasingly hot baths in Otaki no Yu. I buy some grape juice and camembert from Karuizawa before taking the shinkansen to Omiya for the Railroad Museum! There was so much to see, and even more I could buy from the gift shop. A MUST VISIT if you are into trains even a little bit. Omiya Station also had something going on, so I sampled a couple sweet sake before making a snap choice to Return to Utsunomiya! Bar Juice was so good, I had to go again to give the bartender a bar of dark chocolate from Trader Joes I had brought with me on the trip. I also visit Bar Yamanoi (the one operated by the son, not the father bc theres two) to try the Ryokubi! I love yuzu and muscat, what can I say? The shinkansen takes me back~ 17k steps. **Day 11: 25 Cour**: I skip breakfast as I wander around Tokyo Station for one key reason: 25 Course Omakase at Manten Sushi Nihonbashi for lunch. I just barely survived, but hot damn was everything really good! One minor gripe was that they did not tell you how much drinks cost and I found out when the bill arrived :p Around this point, I ran out of money in my bank account so I was rationing what little cash and IC card money I had. No, I did not buy the $200 four liter sized mango, but I really wanted to though I pop into Shibuya 109 for an Oshi no Ko pop up store before heading down to Enoshima Treasure Cafe for a Miss Kobayashis Dragon Maid collab cafe! With that being my #2 fav anime of all time, I had to go for the goodies. I went back up to Asakusabashi but not after trying to 100% Fatal on Normal Mode in Taiko. 12.2k steps **Day 12: Prince of Speed**: I furiously pack and keep my luggage waiting in the hostel before heading to Ikebukuro. Why there?? A Dungeon Meshi collab cafe of course. Somehow, I got a $400 refund from my university. Not sure HOW, but better late than never? I play Taiko one last time in Akihabara before I take my one train from Asakusabashi to HND Terminal 3. I unfortunately fell into the trap of making my checked bag too heavy, so I had to move 1 kg into my backpack. It almost always happens to my mom, and I thought it would never happen to me. Ah, well. Thanks to Face Express, instead of lining up in the long 100+ person line, I got to line up behind only about 20 instead, thanks Japan! I use the last of my cash and coins on 7-Eleven and vending machine stuff to have food on the flight all the way back to the Land of 1000 Lakes. I will return again next year! 8.7k steps pre-flight. Here is my Expense Spreadsheet, if you have any questions feel free to ask me and I will do my best to answer! I know this was a super ambitious and indulgent trip, but it was worth it for all the stories and pictures I can show and tell."}
{"id": "0015", "text": "My wife had to go to Tokyo for work last November, so I flew in on her last day of meetings and we spent the next 12 days traveling along the north side of Honshu, down to Kyoto, over to Fukuoka, and back to Tokyo. I had a new camera and lens setup so was really excited to capture the fall colors. Suffice to say that Japan was absolutely gorgeous at this time of year, and I think fall might be my favorite time to visit. Hope this report will be helpful to others looking to do a similar trip. Were in our 30s and experienced travelers. This was actually our third trip to Japan in 2024 once to go skiing at Niseko early in the year, and once in the spring for cherry blossoms but we lived in Asia at the time and had moved back to the U.S. in the summer. Time tends to be more of a constraint than money, and we like to be comfortable while traveling without going crazy on luxury hotels and the like. We tend to fill out the schedule without a lot of downtime and dont mind long days. **Some logistical notes:** - Hotels I made about half our reservations on Booking and the other half directly. - Internet I have a Google Fi phone plan and high speed data was seamless as soon as I landed. My wife rented a hotspot from a kiosk at the airport since she arrived earlier. - IC cards Not sure if Suica card availability is still an issue (maybe at the airport?), but I had no problem getting them at Tokyo Station. - Trains I think it has been well covered here, but since the price increase, the JR Pass wasnt worth it and I bought all our train tickets individually. I booked Tokaido and Sanyo Shinkansen tickets on SmartEx and linked our Suica cards to the tickets. The app is pretty clunky, feels like an early 2000s interface and can be buggy with accepting some credit cards. Regardless I was able to link a Chase Visa card and it got the job done. - Maps Download offline maps on Google just in case. Interestingly, Google would sometimes give different directions on my phone (Android) than my wifes (iPhone). Generally mine seemed to be more accurate and quicker, especially when transferring on multiple trains/buses. Would also suggest grabbing an app called Organic Maps and getting offline maps on that. It uses data from OpenStreetMap and has a lot more granular detail on certain things like hiking trails. - Car rental A bit more of an arduous process than in any other country Ive visited. Rented one car in Kanazawa from Nissan and another in Fukuoka from Avis through their websites. Make sure you understand exactly what documentation is needed and bring hard copies. For most foreign drivers licenses, you need an International Driving Permit. In the U.S. these are only issued by AAA and are valid for one year. There were some other quirks like needing to fill up the fuel before return at specific approved gas stations within a certain radius of the car rental office, and showing the agent the timestamped receipt. Anecdotally, the Nissan was a newer car with better features like integrated Android Auto. The Avis car a Honda Fit, I believe - was a bit older and more basic. **Day 1 Tokyo** Landed in the afternoon, got a ticket for the Narita Express at the airport, rode to Tokyo Station, and checked in at the Hotel Monterey Ginza. My wife had been at a hotel in Shinjuku for work so she moved her bags over. I saw on socials that an old friend was also on vacation in Japan, and in an incredible coincidence, it turns out she was staying at the exact same hotel. The three of us went for a sushi dinner at the Mitsukoshi in Ginza. Afterwards, we met up with another couple that were good friends with who happened to be in Tokyo on their own trip, and stopped at a sake bar. **Day 2 Kurobe Gorge** Took the Hokuriku Shinkansen to Kurobe and transferred to a local train to Unazukionsen. Its a tiny place, so everything is within walking distance. We rode the Kurobe Gorge Railway and were rewarded with spectacular views. The gorge walls are steep, so I think the optimal timing is between 10am and 2pm when youll have fewer shadows. Try sitting on the right side leaving Unazukionsen and the left side for the return trip to get the best views. There are multiple vantage points in town where youll find iconic views of the rail bridges. Rail service was only to Nekomata because of damage from an earthquake in 2024, but the route beyond Nekomata to Kanetsuri and Keyakidaira is supposed to re-open some time in 2025. Back in town we went to a konbini to grab dinner and were surprised to find a troop of monkeys. There were about 25-30 in total wandering around foraging like they owned the place. We stayed at a ryokan called the Unazukionsen Yamanoha and I didnt see a single other foreigner there. Its a larger ryokan but still quite traditional I have a few tattoos and asked the staff if I would be able to use the onsen, to which they politely said it wasnt possible. I wasnt surprised but a bit disappointed as it hadnt been an issue on previous trips to Niseko and Hakuba. There is an option to reserve a private onsen for 1650 yen to get around this though. **Day 3 Kanazawa** Dropped our bags at the Daiwa Roynet Kanazawa Miyabi next to the main station in the morning. We spent the day exploring the city, starting off at Kenrokuen which is renowned as one of Japans Three Great Gardens. It rained off and on throughout the day but we got lucky and the clouds parted for a bit. The gardens are absolutely serene, and theres even a small waterfall feeding one of the ponds. Before leaving Kenrokuen we stopped at Seisonkaku and then made the short walk to Kanazawa Castle. In the afternoon we took a bus to the tea district, Higashi Chaya, and sampled some teas and Japanese desserts at Sabo Issho. There were some things we missed like the geisha experience and Nagamachi samurai district, so I hope to get back to Kanazawa in the future. Note that the city buses dont accept Suica cards we had to pay cash. **Day 4 - Gassho-zukuri Villages** Picked up a rental car and spent the whole day visiting these UNESCO World Heritage sites. It was overcast and drizzling most of the time which created a wonderful fall atmosphere. Started in Ainokura, the smallest of the three villages. We mostly had the village to ourselves, which would not be the case later especially at Shirakawa! There are a few short trails in the hills around the village that we explored before moving on to Suganuma. The traditional thatched roofs are remarkable. We got to Shirakawa around 2pm and had to wait about 45 minutes just to get in the parking lot. This is the largest of the three villages by far and has some food options and souvenir shops. We wrapped up right as they were closing down at dusk and headed back to Kanazawa. There are dozens of tour buses dropping people off throughout the day, so if I had to redo our itinerary Id have gone to Shirakawa first to try and beat the crowds. This was a Saturday and a holiday (Labor Thanksgiving Day) to boot which probably exacerbated things. **Day 5 Kyoto** Over to Kyoto where we left our things at the Granbell Hotel before heading out. Most of the day was spent north of the city at Kuramadera. It is a long uphill walk to the temple that takes maybe 90 minutes depending on how often you pause to take in the beautiful pathway and shrines that dot the mountainside. The crowds thin out towards the top where you have the option of returning the same way back to Kurama station or taking a trail down the other side of the mountain. We opted for the latter and found a friend before stopping at Kifune Shrine. I was not expecting Kifune to be such a big attraction, but there were absolute hordes of people there. The walk down to Kibuneguchi station is another 20-30 minutes on a paved road next to a stream with more gorgeous scenery. That night we met up with my friend from the sushi dinner in Tokyo to see the night illumination at Nijo Castle. There are better night illuminations in Kyoto to see the fall colors, but I hadnt been to Nijo Castle before so it was a good way to end the day. **Day 6 Kyoto** My wife was drained from the last few days so she grabbed a few extra hours of sleep while I woke up early and headed to Fushimi Inari. Weve both been there before but experiencing the sunrise was a different experience altogether. I made it to the top around 7:15am, and by 7:30am the lighting was perfect. After a bit of time hanging out with the foxes and taking in the scenery, I continued on to the secret bamboo trail and got back to the entrance at 9am where people were streaming in by the hundreds. I met up with my wife at Enkoji, which may be my favorite temple in Kyoto proper now. Enkoji was founded by Tokugawa Ieyasu, made famous in the West as the deuteragonist in the Shogun book (my favorite novel) and recent TV series (an excellent adaptation), in the 1600s. It requires advance registration, which helps to keep the crowds manageable, and tickets cost 1000 yen. The rock garden at the entrance gives way to a tranquil tree garden with stone lanterns and other ornaments. One of the highlights is a Jizo statue in the central garden. Walk up further and youll find a small bamboo forest, a cemetery, and some nice views of Kyoto. We moved on to the Philosophers Path and on a whim ducked into Hakusasonso. The entrance fee was a bit steep at 1300 yen, but this private garden was almost entirely deserted the only people we saw was a couple doing an engagement or wedding photo shoot. Honenin and Shinnyodo are both free and were relatively uncrowded. The central pagoda at Shinnyodo dominates the courtyard. As late afternoon approached, we found ourselves at Nanzenji. Its free to enter, but I think it was worth the 600 yen fee to get an elevated vantage point at Sammon Gate. Nanzenji is also notable for the photogenic Suirokaku Aqueduct. Rather than exit through the main entrance, you can take a hidden path from the aqueduct to leave from the back which will take you to Keage station. After getting dinner downtown, we retraced our steps to see Eikando at night for 700 yen. This has a well-deserved reputation as one of the most impressive night illuminations in Kyoto, and the crown jewel is Hojo Pond. Although it is very popular, we found the temple had quieted down a lot by the time we got there at 8pm and it was a really pleasant walk through the grounds. **Day 7 Kyoto** I had gone back and forth on whether to visit Tofukuji. Tsutenkyo Bridge is known as THE place to see the leaves turning, but Id seen some horror stories about how packed it can get and a ban on photos to keep people moving and avoid dangerous situations. There is a way to get an early admission ticket to enter an hour before it opens to the general public, but I couldnt figure out how to navigate the system I think you may need to be a resident of Japan. My wife convinced me to go anyway, and is usually the case, she made a great call. Tsutenkyo was not nearly as bad as I feared, and if you are patient youll get plenty of time to enjoy the colors and take all the photos you want. Tofukuji is free although there is a 1000 yen fee for Tsutenkyo. Next we had gave our feet a break with a workshop at Yamada Tatami. Id seen it recommended on other posts here, and this was one of the highlights of the trip. The shop owners son, Masaki-san, leads the demonstration and helps you make a small souvenir tatami to take as a keepsake. Traditional tatami is a dying craft in Japan so we were happy to support the business. It was easy to book online, and the shop assistant Cheryl-san translates everything into English and will take a bunch of photos and share them afterwards. We then headed to the monkey park in Arashiyama. By the time we got there it was raining steadily, and we werent sure whether it was worth the 600 yen and a long uphill walk if the monkeys would all be taking shelter. Turns out that they dont give a crap about the weather and go about their business rain or shine. I had to admire the tenacity of even the youngest members of the troop. Before turning in for the night I stopped in Gion, where the drizzling rain gave it an ethereal atmosphere. **Day 8 Fukuoka** Took the Shinkansen south and checked in at the JR Kyushu Hotel Blossom Hakata Chuo midday. After lunch, we visited the Ishikura Sake Brewery. They dont offer tours but there is a showroom of sorts where you can get free samples and try before you buy. We killed the rest of the afternoon at teamLab Forest (2400 yen) before going to the Kamado Shrine in Dazaifu, which does a night illumination during the fall. This is very much off the beaten path in a sleepy area on the outskirts of Fukuoka. The shrine is often visited by couples and people looking for love. Entrance is free but the transportation options become pretty limited late at night. We had to wait at the entrance for about 15 minutes before my wife was able to get a taxi through an app (GO). **Day 9 Interior of Kyushu** Picked up a rental car and drove to the Akizuki Castle ruins on our way to Onta Pottery Village. Closer to Onta we made a quick stop at some rice terraces where the clouds cleared up at the perfect time. I had a bit of a tricky time getting into Onta as there are only two roads in, and one was closed but not marked on Google Maps. Ontayaki pottery is all handmade to this day, with ten families passing down knowledge from generation to generation. There is a free museum where you can learn about the history of the village before visiting the workshops along the main road. Interestingly, none of the families sign their ceramics because they maintain a collective identity. We capped the night off at Citadel, a cocktail bar full of character that has attracted attention after appearing in a NYT piece about the culinary scene in Fukuoka. **Day 10 Tokyo** We decided to leave Ohori Park for another trip and hopped on the Shinkansen up to Tokyo. I got first class tickets (the green car) since they were only a bit more than regular tickets. The green car isnt vastly different from economy other than being in a 2x2 configuration where you can reserve seats, and I wanted to sit on the left side to see Fujisan. JR scaled back dining options on the Shinkansen a few years ago, but in the green car you can still order drinks and snacks to your seat through a QR code. The selection is pretty basic, but its a good fallback option to get coffee or tea and a light meal if you dont have time to stop at a konbini before boarding. We checked in at the Hotel Wing International Premium Tokyo Yotsuya, then after dinner saw the superb night illumination on Meiji Jingu Gaien Ginkgo Avenue. The upper half of the road is closed to vehicles in the evening and the lights go off at precisely 7:30pm. **Day 11 Mount Takao and Tokyo** This time it was my turn to convince my wife to tackle Takaosan. It was a Saturday and fairly crowded, but the weather was ideal. You can do a steep hike from Takaosanguchi station or take a cable car partway up, which was about a 45-minute wait. On the way to the top you can make wishes/prayers and appreciate the figurines on the hillside. The summit offers unparalleled views of Tokyo. The cable car return to the train station had a massive line so we opted to walk all the way down. At night we went to teamLab Planets (4200 yen) and got dinner at the Ippudo in the mall next to Shinjuku station, which is notable for offering vegan ramen. **Day 12 Tokyo and departure** On our last day my wife peeled off to do some shopping while I went to see Meiji Jingu Gaien Ginkgo Avenue in daylight. Our flight was departing from Haneda that afternoon but I also squeezed in a visit to Shinjuku Gyoen (500 yen), a peaceful oasis tucked in between Tokyos high-rises. After a last few moments admiring the massive ginkgo trees, it was off to the airport and back to real life."}
{"id": "0016", "text": "Sharing some details from our trip with this sub, as I got so many great ideas and advice from all of you while planning the trip. Our stats: First-timers to Japan, Family of 4 with 12 and 17 year-old girls, from San Francisco (meaning unable to handle hot weather but used to city living and walking). Day 1 - SFO to Narita. Opted to stay in Ueno due to recommendation I saw on Reddit. This was a great move as we were able to take the Narita Skyliner to Ueno in just 40 minutes. There are a few ways to buy these tickets and YouTube videos are helpful to see where you need to go and how the fares work. In the end, we did not prebook anything and simply bought them from the ticket office staffed by a human. Very easy and only a short wait. We opted for the &amp;HERE hotel, which is a 5-7 minute walk from the Ueno station and directly across the street from Ueno park. they have contactless check in and our 4-person room had a small kitchen, table and bunks for our kids. Plenty of room and within easy walking distance of food, Ueno park and the Ameyoko area under the railway tracks. many options to help us stay awake until dark. Day 2 - Explore by foot- Yanaka for Old Tokyo vibe, Ueno, and arcades and shopping in Ameyoko. 5 days on the Izu Peninsula. Train to from Ueno station to Shimoda, with a nice break/train switch in Atami. Lots of food options in a shopping complex connected to the train station. Rented car to get to AirB&amp;B in Sotoura Beach, just outside of Shimoda. Car rental ended up being great idea as there are a lot of small towns and beaches to explore. The car provided flexibility and it was not difficult to drive/park. We had obtained our international drivers permits in advance at AAA ($20 fee). The Izu peninsula has lovely beaches (Shirahama, Irata, Sotoura, Tatadohama) and clear, refreshing water. This is a popular tourist spot for Japanese later in the summer, but in June its still pretty quiet. We had a paddle board lesson and recommend the cafe IRIE Coffee &amp; Sea in Shirahama. The owner is a surfer and makes great smoothies. Also recommend FermenCo pizza at Irata Beach - you can make a reservation online (in English) and skip the line! 3 days in Kyoto. We stayed at an Airb&amp;b near the Fushiri Inari shrine. This made it very easy on the day we visited the shrine, but it was otherwise a little out of the way for seeing other parts of Kyoto. Nishiki market and the nearby outdoor shopping streets/malls were a big hit with our girls. We also had fun in Round 1 (video games, bowling etc). There was a more obvious tourist presence in Kyoto, especially in Gion. 2 days at Kinosaki Onsen for traditional ryokan experience. Easy train ride from Kyoto (2.5 hours on Express). We stayed at Onishiya Suishien and opted to do the traditional meal service (breakfast and dinner), and take advantage of the free passes provided by the hotel to visit the seven public Onsens in the area. This was a great way to relax after the bustle of Kyoto shopping, and the hotel also had free e-bikes that we could use to explore the town and greater area, including biking to see the Japan Sea. The biking was a highlight for our girls, one of their favorite parts of the trip! 5 days - Tokyo. It was a longer travel day from Kinosaki Onsen to Tokyo but it was a great opportunity to take the Shinkansen (about 5.5 hours total, transferring in Kyoto). We also enjoyed being in a completely different area of Tokyo. I cant do Tokyo justice in this post, there is simply so much to do but if you have time to stay in two parts of the city, I recommend it. On this leg we explored: Shibuya, Harajuku (teen fave), Daikanyama, Ebisu, Ropponga, Diver City (to see Gundam robot, then unplanned stop at science museum because the nearby malls were super crowded). Specific activities included Disneyland and Teamlab Borderless. These activities were fun and we are able to get tickets a day or so in advance. We debated Disneyland due to concerns about crowds and heat but opted to arrive later in the afternoon and just strolled in! Many of the rides only had 5-10 minute waits (longest wait was 40 min) and there was a nice breeze and it cooled off in the evening. Having been to Disneyland in California a number of times the Tokyo version seemed small in comparison but it was a low key and fun addition to our itinerary. Highlights and learnings: -Appreciated the Japanese culture and found everyone to be incredibly friendly, helpful and polite. Japan is very clean and I felt completely safe everywhere we went. We were able to let our kids have some independence in the smaller towns to walk around on their own. -June is rainy season and also pretty warm. This year there was significantly less rain than normal so we only saw rain in Kyoto and it wasnt a big deal. The clear plastic umbrellas are readily available at stores or hotels and are better than rain gear as you stay cool and can leave them outside of shops. The heat was another matter. Most days were between high 80s/low to mid-90s F (sometimes up to 97/98) with high humidity. This was quite challenging for us, especially when we were in cities, as we live in a mild climate with low humidity. For those who have more resilience to heat, this may not be a big deal at all. Everywhere has AC and the evenings are pretty pleasant so we found ourselves spending more time in museums or indoor malls during the day. The weather was great for the beach in Izu Peninsula. -We used taxis much more than planned, in both Kyoto and Tokyo. We didnt realize Uber is readily available in both locations. There are Japanese taxi apps that are likely cheaper and work equally well. I believe all the apps connect you to real taxi drivers (this was at least the case with Uber). You could always get a cab within 3 minutes and for us this offered a few advantages that made taxis worth it: escape from heat, quiet/no crowds so could offer some recovery between activities while seeing the sights from the car, no language barrier. Im sure more expensive but we did have a group of 4 at all times. -I regretted not learning more Japanese phrases before the trip. Everyone we met with willing to work with translation app or hand gestures if they didnt speak English. -I had read the advice many times that its worth learning how the trains work in advance of the trip. We didnt heed this advice so made some time-consuming errors by relying only on google maps in the moment. We didnt understand Green Cars or how you combine base fares with additional tickets. We eventually figured it all out but learned to work with humans at the stations when buying tickets instead of just guessing. Larger stations in the city are busy and crowded, so plan for extra time. -You do need to have some cash. We experienced cash-only restaurants in all cities we visited. -Our younger daughter has a nut allergy, so it was extremely helpful to have pre-printed cards with an explanation of that allergy in English and Japanese. We found these online and used 10-15 cards throughout the trip. Its helpful to have a physical piece of paper that can be taken back to the kitchen if needed, and we didnt get them all back. Many restaurants have detailed lists of what allergens are present in each menu item. It was such a memorable trip, I would definitely travel to Japan again during a cooler time of year."}
{"id": "0017", "text": "I found trip reports really helpful when I was planning for our trip, so I thought I would do one too :) We were there in Feb/March 2025. **Tokyo 3 days / 4 nights** We had lots of neighbourhoods pinned on Google Maps that we wanted to explore while we were in Tokyo so we organised our days by doing big walks around and between various neighbourhoods each day. On our first night after we arrived, we went to a yakitori place under an archway in Yurakucho which was amazing and a great way to start the trip. \\- **Day 1** We walked around Kagurazaka (we were there in the morning and there wasnt much going on, seems like it would be better to visit at night as we saw lots of nice looking restaurants), Akihabara, Asakusa (did not like Asakusa as it was pure over-tourism, so if your time is short in Tokyo and you are visiting other temples during your trip, I personally would skip). This evening, we walked around Shinjuku, went to Omoide Yokocho (I recommend avoiding this place, as it was mentally busy and not very enjoyable to walk around) then to Golden Gai. Golden Gai was really cool. All the staff in the different bars we went to were really nice and friendly. I recommend having one drink in a few different places as the bars are all different with different vibes. We finished our night with amazing ramen in Golden Gai. \\- **Day 2** We went to Teamlabs Planets. We enjoyed it, but if you have limited time in Tokyo I dont think it is a good way to spend half a day because it isnt a particularly Japanese experience in my opinion. There was a blue bottle caf by a park nearby which was a nice place to people watch afterwards. We then got a bus to Tsukiji for some food and went to a great place for tuna Kaisendon, though it kind of gave us the raw fish ick, because it was such a big portion of raw fish, which took a week to lift which was unfortunate. That night we went for food in Koenji which seemed like a cool area but we were too jetlagged to make the most of the bars. \\- **Day 3** We walked around Sangenjaya, which was nice and interesting to explore. We then got a bus to Shimokitazawa which was really cool. The vintage shops are amazing and fun to explore if thats your thing. We then went to Nakameguro, then Daikanyamacho, then Harijuku. We honestly hated Harijuku and I dont think it is worth visiting unless you enjoy queuing with other tourists to buy gross things specifically for tourists... We skipped a hotel refresh and went straight to Shibuya to go to Shibuya sky. This was a wild amount of walking this day and it was cold. We didnt want to miss any of these neighbourhoods but it was perhaps excessive visiting all in one day. I would say definitely to go to Shimokitazawa and the other neighbours just depending how much time you have / what season it is e.g. Nakameguro looks stunning during cherry blossom season. Even though it is obviously touristy, I enjoyed Shibuya Sky. It's amazing to see a 360 sky line - try and go at sunset. **Onomichi - 2 nights** We really liked Onomichi. It was a nice change of pace from Tokyo and nice to be by the sea. We stayed in a really nice hostel Lemonsea Onomichi. We had a private room and although it is a hostel, it was nicer then some of our much more expensive accommodation. When we arrived from Tokyo, we dumped our bags and explored. The next morning, we got up early, spent the morning walking the temple trail and visited a lovely tea house. We then jumped on the train to Hiroshima for the afternoon. We did this because we didnt want to stay more nights in a big city and felt it was wrong to miss going to Hiroshima we felt like it was important to go and almost pay respect / to acknowledge the tragedy that took place there and were glad we went even though it was fairly out of the way. **Osaka 2 nights** We loved Osaka and wished we had longer there. While we were there, we wandered around: Dontonbori, Shinsekai, Namba, Nipponbashi and Nakazakicho (a hipstery area which was great for a matcha fix). Our main focus in Osaka was eating and drinking. We had a big night out the first night in the Dontonbori area, went to a few cocktail bars, then hired a private karaoke room with an unlimited drinks package lol. It was fun. Would recommend even if Kareoke isnt your thing. On the second night, we went to Tenma which was a really cool area filled with loads of casual restaurants. It was v cool to walk around and people watch. We then went to the Ekimae building which was also v cool. It is quite a surreal place - hundreds of tiny restaurants in a kind of weird old building. It was absolutely packed with office workers. **Kyoto 3 nights** In Kyoto we did the standard tourist hit list. We didnt love Kyoto. While it is obviously a beautiful place, for us the hoards and hoards of tourists unfortunately spoil the experience and we felt guilty contributing to the over-tourism. Getting the bus about places takes ages because the traffic is bad and there are so many people getting on and off the buses. We were still glad we went, and did still enjoy walking around the quieter streets exploring, but visiting the temples and all the must visit spots was pretty stressful. I cant imagine what it would be like in peak season. We had one nice day visiting a park and temple that were further out. Would really recommend seeking out temples/parks that are less busy. Do think it is worth going to Fushimi Inari super early like most people recommend so you are not walking to the top in a queue. Pontocho seemed quite touristy compared to places we had been in Osaka and Tokyo. Defo not a must visit in my opinion. **Kanazawa 2 nights** We really liked Kanazawa. We were unlucky with the weather as it was v cold and wet but would recommend visiting. If you dont like crowds, I think could be a good idea to skip Kyoto and go to Kanazawa instead especially in the peak season. We wandered around the Samurai District, the Old Town and visited the gardens which were nice (though would be much nicer in the other seasons when there are plants in bloom). The fish market in Kanazawa was great. We ended up having snow crab and beer one morning (I inadvertently ordered a $50 crab) but it was a cool experience and delicious. There were lots of locals all doing the same and they were offering us different things to try. **Okuhida 2 nights** The scenery was amazing on the bus from Kanazawa to Okuhida. We stayed in two different onsen hotels in different villages one more modern and one more traditional. We loved the hotels but we were unrealistic about how easy it would be to get to the villages and get between them. The distance was not far (10 mins drive between them) but there were no taxis so it was a bit of a faff and waste of time waiting for multiple buses, as there was also no direct route. We had planned to go to the Okuhida Shinhotaka Ropeway but it was going to be too logistically difficult with moving hotels plus the generally limited public transport. So this was a mistake in planning. Also personally I think 1 night in an onsen hotel is enough. The large breakfasts and Kaiseki meals at night were amazing, but a bit much two days in a row. There are also only so many onsens you can have before you skin starts suffering. Okuhida was lovely, with stunning scenery and we were glad we went, especially being in Japan in the winter and getting to see all the snowy mountains. I think 1 night would have been plenty with perhaps an extra night in Kanazawa, or in Takayama (which we drove through and thought looked really beautiful). **Kiso Valley 2/3 nights** We made our way via bus and train from Okuhida to Nagiso via Matsumoto. It was a long day of travelling but doable. The train to Nagiso from Matsumoto was amazing - the scenery was stunning. We stayed the first night in Nagiso in Hostel Yui-an which was really lovely and with nice owners. The next morning, we were up early and spent a couple hours walking in the Atera Valley which was beautiful. We then made our way to Magome where we stayed in a guest house. We were glad we stayed here as it meant we got to wander at night and in the morning before the day trippers arrived. We walked the next day from Magome to Tsumago, then got the bus back. We did the walk much faster than we thought we would and had started really early. We therefore got back to our guest house earlier and decided to leave a night earlier so we could get an extra night in Tokyo before going home. Tsumago and Magome are really lovely, but there are a lot of tourists. The walk wasnt busy though which was good. I would say if you are tight for time, if you plan properly with train and bus times, 2 nights is enough in Kiso Valley to do some walking (if you are reasonably fit) and see a couple of the postal towns. We then had a night in Nagoya, before going back to Tokyo for two more nights. We stayed in Shinbashi the second time we were in Tokyo and thought it was a great place to be based. There are loads of amazing food options, e.g. loads of really cool tiny restaurants and bars of all kinds in and around Shimbashi station. Some were a bit intimidating but when you did get a seat somewhere you felt like you had won a prize. **General thoughts / advice** \\- The biggest recommendation I have is to use Tabelog to find your restaurants. You can search by area, rating and by type of food and find amazing places everywhere you go this way. It was really interesting comparing google reviews of places to Tabelog reviews... Some of the Japanese reviews on Tabelog were hilarious they are very discerning. I read that anything over 3.5 means a restaurant is great on Tabelog. Using it for the whole trip meant we literally did not have a bad meal and managed to try everything we wanted. It also means you dont need to stress too much about basing your plans for the day/night around where you are going to eat because with Tabelog you can get loads of options for wherever you will be. \\- Definitely use the luggage forwarding service and avoid bringing big cases to more rural remote places. It was v embarrassing trying to cart about huge cases in Kiso Valley and the local buses did not really have space for them so that was a big mistake. It was also pretty mortifying showing up to our wooden guesthouse in Magome and our cases wouldnt fit up the stairs to our room and then had to sit in the communal hallway. We packed way too many clothes as we thought it would be too much faff doing a washing half way through our trip but this was the wrong call. Pack lighter and get washing done! \\- We moved around a lot and it wasnt a very relaxing holiday. Our average daily step count was wild. However, it is difficult if you dont know if you will be back to Japan to be selective and miss places out when you already feel like you are barely scratching the surface with just 3 weeks. However, if you don't have huge amounts of energy / want a semi relaxing holiday, don't do as much moving around as we did within this timeframe. \\- While public transport is obviously generally great, if we were to go back to Japan, we would maybe hire a car if traveling to rural areas to have more flexibility and freedom. The roads seemed pretty calm and they drive on the left side (we are from the UK). \\- We learned the (very) basics language wise that you would learn anywhere you go. We found it hard and a little awkward but we felt it was really appreciated. It definitely helped going to restaurants to be able to ask for a table in Japanese. \\- This is not a Japan specific tip but I pinned loads of coffee shops on Google maps that I thought looked good in Tokyo, Osaka and Kyoto before we went so I could always check when we were out and about where there was one close by which was handy."}
{"id": "0018", "text": "Hey, So i did Mount Fuji last week. I'm fat (110 kg for 1m80) but i pulled it off, by taking time to ascend. The ascent was not so difficult ( subashiri trail, with a stay at the 7th station Taiyokan ). I did not climb at night to get the sunrise, and it was a good thing, because with the fog in the morning nothing was to be seen. It was long, and at the end it really started to drag, not really physically, but with the lowering temperature, the small rain, and the endless stairs and laces. We started at 11h at station 5 (taking 45 minutes to actually start, with sun screen, and so on) and arrived at 16h at the station 7 on day 1, taking time to do pauses and stamps. We then started at 5h, after a light sleep ( people are so fucking noisy in the stations ) and arrived at 9h30 to the top on day 2. Arriving at the top dispelled any fatigue instantly. The descent was a nightmare without gaiters, with rocks going into my shoes every 100m, and 4 days after the descent, my muscles are still sores. People talk about running down in the sand for the Subashiri trail. It was not an option for my knees because of my weight, so i took my time (god bless the rendet hiking sticks at station 5) and it took maybe 5h30 to 6h30 to get down ( the 3 hours you see online for the trail are only if you can run the whole thing down I bet ). To quote https://mynihonblog.com/2024/02/21/japan-2023-summer-day-12-descending-mount-fuji-on-the-subashirir-trail-with-altitude-sickness/ : &gt;Youd think that once our symptoms improved the rest of the descent would be joyful, but no, this is where it gets worse haha. I had, of course, read about the sand run which is part of the descent on the Subashiri trail, they say you can get down several kilometers in less than an hour here if you slide/run your way down. (...) &gt;**Sand run is a little incorrect, instead of sand the run is made of small(er) volcanic rocks which steal your entire foot with each step. You also slide forward about a foot with each step too, making each step a bit of an adventure, and absolutely killing your knees as you try to keep upright. And the hardest part, the path is straight down, no switchbacks, no curves, straight down the entire way!** I did not get altitude sickness : the thing is only 3 800 m high, I went skiing at those altitudes and i personally think it's not big deal, but i saw (mainly japanese looking) people with oxygen can. Anyway, if you have any question regarding equipment or the trail, don't hesitate !"}
{"id": "0019", "text": "My family of 5 recently went on an 8-Day trip to Japan for the first time. I wanted to make a report/summary of our trip for both myself as a journey log and for reddit as a thank you to the community that has helped me so much. I hope this post can be helpful to other new travelers. So far, I have made a post to review my itinerary and a post of my revised itinerary. Now I will make a summary of the itinerary that was actually executed. **Context:** Was always a dream to visit Japan ever since discovering anime. Did a lot of research about the places we were going to visit and the activities we were going to do and even the restaurants we could eat in. Made a lot of backups incase things didn't go as planned (It didn't lol). Learned basic Japanese phrases through YouTube and ChatGPT (The goat 2nd only to Google Maps) that would help me communicate with locals when eating, commuting, shopping and sightseeing. **Apps That I Used:** **Google Maps** \\- My general primary travel guide. It was almost always on or in my background checking if we were on track and on time. **Google Lens** \\- Go-to translator/ information guide. Instant and relatively accurate. **ChatGPT** \\- My preferred translator when I wanted to ask questions on the fly. Preferred it because I was able to provide context and made the translations more appropriate. **Japan Transit Planner** \\- Used it whenever the trains got too confusing (mostly due to the local and rapid train schedules). Side note: Whenever I asked locals for directions on trains, they always used this app. **CardReader** \\- To keep track of our 5 suica cards **Ecbo Cloak** \\- Booked a reservation on our final day, so that we didn't have to drag our luggage around Tokyo. Highly recommend if you have large luggage. **NERV** \\- An alert app for natural disasters. Thankfully never had to use it **Accommodation:** We booked directly through a Japanese resident costing 11,600yen per night for a small 3-storey house complete with amenities in Kawasaki. Cheaper than a hotel booking especially for a family of 5 and imo more comfortable. Made our stay a lot more fun when we would buy bento and grocery food. The host was also sooo accommodating. **Things I learned:** **Be flexible.** The first few days I tried my hardest to stick to the itinerary and in turn quickly tired out my family. I could keep going, but I realized this was **our family** trip so I made retroactive changes. I also greatly overestimated my family's willingness to walk long distances. **Small Gripes** \\- As we were going in and out of Tokyo, it was baffling how the **left &amp; right walking etiquette kept changing**. I've noticed only Tokyo walks on the left and the further you are from Tokyo, right side walking becomes the norm. **Bus stops outside of Tokyo are very discreet.** A few were basically playing hide &amp; seek with us. **Lack of shade.** The fact that rain did not become a hindrance to our trip was both a blessing and a curse. The constant walking under the sun took a toll on my family. Changes had to be made due to this. This could be a tourist specific problem as everyone else would jump between being indoors and outdoors compared to us who would spend hours outside. The heat and humidity were fine like any SEA country, but it was the combination of long shadeless walks that became a problem. **Essentials: 1. Pocket Wifi** \\- Must-have for stress-free navigation. Ninja Wifi suited our needs the best. **2. IC card** \\- Must-have to avoid wasting time at ticket machines and getting stuck at ticket gates. Welcome Suicas are the best IMO as you can easily empty it out on your last train ride by choosing the option to top up the exact amount needed to exit the station. **3. Umbrella** \\- Or any other thing to protect you from the sun. **4. Power bank** \\- A small 10000 mAh one is enough to ensure your phone gets through the whole day. Your phone is your key to everything; don't lose access to it. **Summary: Amazing people.** I've read some people say that the Japanese do not like foreigners, but I still went in with an open mind and made sure I would be able to communicate with them on a basic level. I was equally met with kindness and sometimes even more as there were instances where they would personally lead us to where we needed to be. Staff were almost always kind except for one tourist trap place we ate at. **Amazing public transportation.** When you factor in the volume of daily commuters they need to cater, it's amazing how efficient the system is. Even in the Outer Tokyo parts, they manage to provide great service. There were times when the platforms, exits, train lines, local vs rapid trains got confusing, but it was manageable and I was getting more accustomed as time went on. **Amazing food.** Don't be scared to try anything. **Amazing culture.** If you respect the culture, I promise you it's very worth it. We weren't perfect ofcourse, but everyone was very understanding. Home Base #1: Okubo, Shinjuku **Day 1 (Start: 5PM) :** Early Dinner: Noseya (Abura Soba); Great first stop. Host/Chef was friendly and helpful. Lovely local soba restaurant. * Shinjuku - *Saw the cute 3D cat. Went to Alpen Tokyo to check out shoes and admire the baseball merch (All hail Ohtani-san)* * Shibuya - *Shibuya Crossing photo ops and Starbucks for an aerial view; Saw Hachiko the goat; Shibuya Loft to buy stampbooks* * PS: *We bought stampbooks for us to collect* *eki stamps* *of train stations we would pass through. A memorabilia I cannot recommend enough as it is a fun experience and something you can return to and reminisce on. We also bought a* *Goshuin book* *for the same reasons, but for shrines and temples. Instead of being free like in eki stamps, goshuins cost 500 yen but you get to watch beautiful calligraphy each time.* **Day 2** (**~~7AM~~** **7:30AM)** \\- Was also able to get the famous train-staff-pushing-you-into-the-train experience due to peak hours; Was very surprising and uncomfortable, but is now a memorable experience and a fun story to tell. * ~~Hachiko Statue~~ \\- *Removed as photos were adequate the night before.* * Tokyo Station - *Extremely photogenic train station* * Kokyo Gaien National Garden - *Was only able to view from the outside* * Tokyo Metro Govt Building - *Beautiful cityscape, but there was a haze/fog surrounding the city.* Lunch: Blue Plate (Curry) \\- Amazing curry, beautiful blend of spices and herbs. * Koenji - *I expected we would've spent more time here, but the walking fatigue took a toll on my family. Adding the fact that they weren't too amazed with the local scenery, the stop was cut short.* * Nakameguro (~~Night~~ Afternoon) - *Walked along Meguro River to Starbucks Reserve Roastery. Good coffee, amazing decor and layout.* * Shin-Okubo (Korea Town) - *Due to the additional time we had, we were able to visit Korea Town which was nearby our stay. Okay place, was able to witness Japanese Police in action: Calm and used numbers to surround the alleged offender's car.* Dinner: Ramen Kagetsu Arashi \\- A ramen chain restaurant. Delicious cheap ramen. On the saltier side, but I've read that Japan prefers ramen to be salty. **Day 3** (**~~7~~** **6AM)** \\- Decided to leave earlier to avoid the morning rush as we were also moving to our second and last stay place. Home Base #2: Shitte, Kawasaki * Yamashita Park - *Beautiful Park. Also saw the Hikawa Maru Museum Ship.* * Komachi Street - *Lots of street food. Ate lunch here* * Tsurugaoka Hachimangu - *Out of the 6 shrines/temples we visited, this was my favourite. The combination of very few tourists, beautiful scenery and watching the monk handwrite the calligraphy made the experience memorable.* * Hokokuji Temple - *A serene bamboo forest.* * Shonan Coastal Beach (Sunset &amp; Mt. Fuji) - *Went to this beach hoping for a shot of the sunset and Mt. Fuji together. What made this spot memorable was enjoying the sea winds and cloudy views with friendly locals. I asked a local where would you generally see Mt. Fuji and he was very kind and helpful and although we only saw a silhouette of it, we stayed to chill and listen to a couple singing.* Dinner: Kinokuniya Shokudo (Seafood Donburi) \\- Local restaurant that apparently was one of the oldest in the area. Very friendly staff with family vibes. Delicious and fresh seafood. Affordable prices. One of the top places we ate in. **Day 4 (7AM, Travel to Hakone)** Lunch: Daiyuzan Line Station Cafe (Omurice) \\- Arrived right as it opened. Cool aesthetics as it originally was a train station and they maintained the theme. Pretty pricey omurice and hamburger steak, but it was high quality Ashigara beef and soft omelette. * Amasake Tea House - *400 year old teahouse. Okay tea and desserts. Go for the vibe.* * Train to Gora Sta. (Hydrangea Viewing) - *Vibrant flowers along the train tracks. Cool train switchback mechanic to traverse the mountain.* * Hakone Venetian Glass Museum - *Beautiful museum. Everything was picturesque. The venetian glass art were all interesting to look at.* * ~~(Night) Hakoneyumotohotaru Park (Firefly viewing)~~ \\- *Cancelled. Found out to be unfeasible to get to at night without a car.* * Private Onsen - *Was able to schedule multiple time slots, so my family all had their times and loved it.* Stay at Hakone: Ajisai Onsen Ryokan \\- Affordable ryokan with 1 large outdoor onsen and 2 indoor private onsens. Everything was clean and the staff were friendly. Picked this place for its price and great reviews. However, do note that they encourage reviews by giving free drinks so even though we had a wonderful time, we don't have a frame of reference to compare it to other ryokans. **Day 5** (**~~7~~** **8AM)** \\- Slept in a little * Owakudani - *The journey was just as fun as the scenery. Once again, only got to see a silhouette of Mt. Fuji. The rotten egg smell was bearable to me, but my mom hated it so ymmv.* * Pirate Ship - *Beautiful scenes again. First Class not really necessary.* Lunch: Shinsh Soba (Soba) \\- The cold soba was delicious and refreshing on a sunny day. It was amazing to see the old aunties dashing through the restaurant, while still being friendly and accommodating. * ~~Hakone Checkpoint~~ \\- *Skipped* * ~~Ancient Cedar Avenue~~ \\- *Skipped. The walk from Hakonemachi to Motohakone port would've added almost 2km, so judging from our past days my family would've killed me on the spot if I continued with the original plan.* * Hakone Shrine - *Was still a long walk from the port. The sunshine was both a blessing and curse. The towering cedar trees were so cool. The tori gate by the sea was cool, but too many people were there.* **Day 6 (8AM)** * Your Name Stairs - *One of my top anime media. Awesome moment.* * Shitamachi Tanabata Festival - *Fun festival with an awesome backdrop of Tokyo Skytree at the end of the street. The sun forced us to cut it short and head to Ameyoko.* * ~~Kappabashi Kitchenware Town~~ \\- *Closed due to the festival* * ~~Tokyo National Museum~~ \\- *Skipped* * ~~Kiyosumi Shirakawa~~ \\- *Skipped to lessen physical activities.* * ~~(Night) Sensoji Temple / Kaminarimon Gate~~ \\- *Moved to the next day in the morning.* * Ameyoko - *Fun shopping district. This is where we did the bulk of our souvenir shopping due to the low prices.* * Notable Stores: Motoyama *(Japan made bags),* Niki no Kashi *(cheap sweets &amp; snacks)* **Day 7** (**~~8~~** **10AM)** \\- Slept in for needed rest * Nitori Furniture Store \\- *Amazing place. Arguably better than IKEA for small home products.* * Tokyo Tower / ~~Zojo-Ji~~ \\- *Took a family photo infront of the iconic tower. Zojo-ji was skipped due to time constraints and walk fatigue.* * Sensoji - *Amazing architecture. Really cool goshuin.* Lunch: Washoku Gyuuna yadoki Asakusa (Wagyu &amp; Unagi) \\- Good prices for wagyu &amp; eel. Wagyu was soft and buttery, but not melt in your mouth. Eel was very good, great sauce and removed most of the gamey taste (I like the gamey taste tho). * Tokyo Disneyland - *Went through with visiting it upon request of the family. Took pictures at the entrance and went home.* Dinner: Hama-Sushi \\- Cheap sushi. Rice still had good texture. Seafood was nice and fresh. **Day 8 (9AM)** * ~~Bonsai Village, Warehouse District~~ \\- *Skipped due to time constraints* * Akihabara - *Despite the online dislike I've seen for Akihabara, I loved this place. All the anime stores I went to were really cool. I know buying online would be cheaper, but I feel like it's almost a rite of passage to buy one in person in Akihabara.* * Notable stores: *Trader* *always had the best prices compared to the other famous ones, but had less variety.* *Gear2* *had great prices for pokemon packs and hands out free packs for reviews.* * Hie Shrine - *Beautiful shrine surrounded by city scape. Has the tori gates like in Fushimi Inari minus the crowds.* * ~~Ameyayokocho~~ \\- *Completed* * Gundam / Odaiba - *The Gundam Base was really cool. It's like a display haven of gundam.* * Unicorn Gundam - *Really cool to see a life-sized gundam.* Dinner: McDonald's - Wanted to compare the quality of fast food compared to other countries. It was definitely better. The shrimp on the ebi burger was very succulent. The ketchup was more like tomato sauce, but I still prefer the more processed version. * Haneda Airport - *Terminal 3 was a nice small airport. It's not a HKIA or Changi Airport, but it's still good.*"}
{"id": "0020", "text": "From the beginning, I knew I wasn't going to all the places I listed in the plan and that the latter half of the itinerary would have to change drastically. And this is not an itinerary for everyone. However I'm still pleased by the outcome of the trip and the number of locations I could visit. I checked Google timeline and according to that I walked about 80 miles during the duration of my trip. When I was in Kyoto, I generally was able to explore each temples/gardens/shrines at a leisurely pace without skipping much and thoroughly exploring each place. I had to rush more during the latter half of my trip when the transit time between the locations were longer, even though I was visiting fewer places. For breakfast, unless specified, I ate convenience store bread and snacks that I bought last night in order to fill myself up as quickly as possible as not a lot of shops open that early in the morning, and eating pre-bought food was just more quicker in general. After stuffing myself in the morning I generally didn't feel the need for lunch, although I was using the vending machine constantly to hydrate myself. This saved me some more time to visit more places. Most of the places I went for dinner had a tabelog score over 3.5 or at the very least 3.3, but I didn't have to wait long for any of them. This wasn't a foodie trip so I didn't preplan any of the restaurants; it was mostly based on proximity, late opening hours and tabelog scores. But the evening plans were all spontaneous. One thing I wish I prepared for more thoroughly is a device that would allow me to hold the umbrella without using my hands. I did bring some zipties but they weren't working for me. An umbrella holster or something like that. I take a lot of pictures with my phone so I just didn't bother with the umbrella even when the sun was scorching hot, and I think a UV umbrella might've saved me a bit from the excessive sweating and sunburn. The sun was way more of an issue than rain. Normal text = original plan **Bold** = what I actually followed _Italics_ = places I added spontaneously ~~Strikethrough~~ = places I cut from the itinerary Day 1: Kansai airport to Kyoto hotel near Karasumagojo **Kansai airport to Kyoto Station, Hamburg steak dinner at the station, head to hotel near Karasumagojo** Day 2: Gansenji, Joruriji, Horyuji **Gansenji &gt; Joruriji &gt; Horyuji &gt; _Chuguji_** Evening: Nishin Soba dinner near hotel, Ninenzaka, Sannenzaka, Gion, Kamo River night stroll (I had to wait 40 minutes at a bus stop in the suburbs of Nara for the bus to Gansenji. I thought it would be a waste to just stand still in the sweltering heat for almost an hour, so I decided to walk along the road for the next stop. Big mistake. I made my way to the next stop in the middle of the mountain that looked almost abandoned, and waited for the bus. The bus eventually came but the driver completely ignored me and passed me by. This was an actual bus stop. I just couldn't wait another hour for a bus that may or may not stop for me so I decided to walk to my destination. It was a long, arduous walk through the mountains, albeit a flat one. I walked 12 miles this day. Next time I will be waving my arms like a maniac.) Day 3: Joju-ji Temple, Katsura Imperial Villa, Kegonji (Suzumushidera) Temple, Jiz-in Temple (Take-no-tera), Tsukiyomi Shrine, Matsunoo-taisha (Matsuo-taisha) Shrine, Kory-ji Temple, Myoshin-ji **Oyakodon breakfast at Nakau &gt; Katsura Imperial Villa &gt; Matsunoo-taisha (Matsuo-taisha) Shrine &gt; Tsukiyomi Shrine &gt; Kegonji (Suzumushidera) Temple &gt; Jiz-in Temple (Take-no-tera) &gt; ~~Joju-ji~~ &gt; Kory-ji Temple &gt; Myoshin-ji Taizo-in** Evening: Dinner at Ichiran(first time ever eating there), some arcade mall tours, head to the same locations as yesterday for an early evening stroll, visit Kenninji at night (It rained so much earlier this day and I thought the Villa tour may be canceled, but miraculously the rain stopped while we were in the building waithing for the tour to begin. But this meant I had to walk all day in drenched shoes, hardly a pleasant feeling. I almost thought of buying spare shoes or water shoes but I decided to just dry them overnight. This was the right decision as the new shoes would've taken up so much space in the luggage and it never rained this much again during the trip. Joju-ji only opens in select few days throughout the year and I failed to check this before, but I didn't waste that much time for the detour. When I arrived at Myoshin-ji it was almost closing time and I wasn't able to get the goshuin/view their gardens, but Taizo-in opens until 5 pm and it was such a treat. There was absolutely no one but me and I was able to enjoy the garden by myself for about an hour) Day 4: Hogon-in, Okochi Sanso Garden, Jojakkoji Temple, Giji Temple, Saga Toriimoto Preserved Street, Adashino Nenbutsuji Temple, Otagi Nenbutsuji Temple, Seiryji (Saga Shakad) Temple, Daikaku-ji Temple **Hogon-in &gt; Okochi Sanso Garden &gt; Jojakkoji Temple &gt; Gioji Temple &gt; Saga Toriimoto Preserved Street &gt; Adashino Nenbutsuji Temple &gt; Otagi Nenbutsuji Temple &gt; Seiryji (Saga Shakad) Temple &gt; Daikaku-ji Temple** Evening: Tsukemen dinner, visit Pokemon Center Kyoto, visit large bookstore (This was the only day I was able to follow through the original itinerary completely. However I wasn't able to fully explore Seiryji and view the pond at Daikaku-ji, which you have to pay a separate fee to enter) Day 5: To-ji, Heian-kyo Soseikan, Kyoto Imperial Palace, Kyoto Sento Imperial Palace, Nijo Castle **McDonald's breakfast &gt; To-ji &gt; Heian-kyo Soseikan &gt; ~~Kyoto Imperial Palace~~, Kyoto Sento Imperial Palace &gt; _Go Shrine_ &gt; Nijo Castle &gt; _Kenninji Ryosokuin_ &gt; _Entoku-in_** Evening: More Kamo River walk, pass by City Hall, tonkatsu dinner, visit Mueum of Kyoto for night view (I had two acquaintances for this day and planned the day accordingly. However after the hour long tour at the Sento palace one of the acquaintance was exhausted and had to leave with the other person. As a change of plans, I skipped the Imperial Palace tour and decided to head straight to Nijo Castle before stumbling onto the Go Shrine on the way. After Nijo Castle I still had time as the original plan was pretty light. I made way to Kenninji but there was only time for one place. So I opted for Ryosokuin and their special summer opening, forgoing the Kenninji gardens) Day 6: Sanzen-in Temple, Jikko-in, Hosen-in, Shugakuin Imperial Villa(11am reservation), Manshuin Temple, Enkji Temple, Shisend Temple, Konpuku-ji Temple, Hnenin Temple, Anraku-ji Temple, Shinsh Gokurakuji (Shinnyod) Temple, Konkai Kmy-ji Temple, Okazaki Shrine **Sanzen-in Temple &gt; ~~Jikko-in, Hosen-in, Shugakuin Imperial Villa(11am reservation)~~ &gt; _Saginomori Shrine_ &gt; Manshuin Temple &gt; Enkji Temple &gt; Shisend Temple &gt; ~~Konpuku-ji Temple, Hnenin Temple, Anraku-ji Temple~~ &gt; Shinsh Gokurakuji (Shinnyod) Temple &gt; Konkai Kmy-ji Temple &gt; Okazaki Shrine &gt; _Heian Jingu_** Evening: Shirakawa Canal &gt; Kamo River &gt; salad and pasta dinner &gt; arcades &gt; hotel (Sanzenin was pretty large and there was no time left for the other two temples. I ran for the bus but it left earlier than expected, and the acquaintance I was supposed to go with bailed out, so I skipped the Shugakuin tours. Saginomori Shrine was on my way to Manshuin. Konpuku-ji was just a continuation of what I saw throughout the day and Hnenin, Anraku-ji were both entrance only, so it was no big loss. After exploring Konkai Kmy-ji I headed for the pagoda at the cemetery. I think I came close to dying due to a heat stroke but the views from here were memorable. After Okazaki Shrine I decided to head to Heian Jingu on a whim. It was near closing time but I was able to receive goshuin. And the gardens opened until 5:50 pm, and there was virtually no one but me at the gardens. Really enjoyed the experience.) Day 7: Komyoin, Tentokuin, Fujinomori shrine, Daigoji, Kajuji, Sennyuji, Shinzenkoji, Chishakuin **Komyoin &gt; Tentokuin &gt; (passed by Tofukuji) &gt; _Unryu-in_ &gt; Sennyuji &gt; Imakumano Kannon-ji &gt; Shinzenkoji &gt; ~~Fujinomori shrine~~ &gt; Chishakuin &gt; ~~Kajuji~~ &gt; Daigoji** Evening: Ramen dinner south of Kyoto Station, Toji temple night views, macha parfait under the Kyoto Tower (There was hardly anyone at Komyoin early in the morning, I definitely recommend it if you're an early riser. I thought of going to Fujinomori Shrine for their hydrangeas but the peak of the season has already passed and it made more sense to visit the temples nearby first. Unryu-in also had barely any people despite having a sizeable garden. The entire Sennyuji complex was pretty large, and I had to visit Imakumano Kannon-ji as it was right next to where I was. Shinzenkoji wasn't allowing any visitors inside but was opening their hydrangea garden to the public, and also did goshuins. It was pretty late when I arrived at Daigoji but I was able to thoroughlyexplore their garden. When I headed to the main precint by 4:25 pm the person at the gate told me that I had to be quick and that it normally closed by 4:30. But I was told by the ticked counter that the final admission was by 4:30 and it closed at 5pm. Anyway I obliged and ran for the Bentenike pond. When I returned it was 4:39.) Day 8: Check out from Kyoto hotel, head to Lake Biwa for Onjo-ji (Mii-dera) Temple, Former Chikurin-in Temple, Saikyo-ji Temple, Mangetsu-ji Ukimido (Floating Hall), Biwako Terrace, Shirahige Shrine, check in to Osaka hotel in Namba **Beginning of 5 day Kansai Wide Area Pass, Check out from Kyoto hotel &gt; Kyoto Station &gt; Amanohashidate Station &gt; Ine &gt; Ine Bay Cruise &gt; Funaya &gt; Motoise Kono Jinja &gt; Amanohashidate Kasamatsu Park &gt; Naraiji &gt; Amanohashidate Ferry &gt; Amanohashidate Station &gt; Kyoto Station** Evening: Ramen dinner at the Kyoto Station, some exploring of the Station, collect luggage from hotel and check in to Namba hotel (I received some perks from Klook after buying the Kansai Wide Area Pass from them. I received tickets for the Ine Bay cruise, Amanohashidate Kasamatsu Park lift, shuttle bus to and from Naraiji temple and Naraiji temple itself, and was able to use them all in a daytrip. Ine Bay cruise was fine but I felt like there was too many seagulls swarming the ship to get more treats from the tourists and all the noise and pandemonium and fear of being defecated on by birds hampered my enjoyment a bit. I enjoyed waling along the coast and exploring Ine and all the cute houses, and felt that staying here for a day would be nice. Returning to Amanohashidate, the day still hadn't cleared by then like I hoped and the view was slightly ruined. The sky was bright but there was a layer of clouds. I think Amanohashidate should be enjoyed in autumn with clear skies if you're heading there for the observatories. But exploring a bit of the sandbar itself, I was pleasantly surprised by the clear waters and the beauty of the nature. So if you're going to walk or cycle across the sandbar a cloudy day might not be too bad) Day 9: Lake Biwa daytrip 2, Ishiyamadera, Hachiman-bori Moat, Azuchi-jo Castle Museum, Shiga Prefectural Azuchi-jo Castle Archaeological Museum, Nobunaga no Yakata Museum, Hikone Castle, Genkyuen Garden **Koyasan daytrip, Namba Station &gt; Koyasan Station &gt; Kongobu-ji &gt; Kongobu-ji Danjo Garan (Elevated Precinct) &gt; Okunoin Cemetery &gt; back to Namba Station** Evening: Some underground mall tour, Chuka Soba and fried rice and gyoza dinner near hotel (Koyasan was great, and you need all day to explore just these three places. I had no time to visit any of the smaller sub temples or gardens, but was able to glance through the gate and get a taste of what they had to offer, and that was still nice. Most shops and temples close by 4-5 pm so after that you have no choice but to retire to your shukubo or just return to the city.) Day 10: Head to Mount Koya, Okunoin Cemetery, Kongobu-ji, Kongobu-ji Danjo Garan (Elevated Precinct) **Head to Okayama Station via Shinkansen &gt; Korakuen &gt; Okayama Castle &gt; some time at the local Kissaten &gt; Kurashiki Bikan Historical Quarter &gt; Ohara Museum of Art &gt; Aichi Shrine &gt; stroll around the canals &gt; Okayama Station &gt; Umeda** Evening: Ramen dinner at the underground mall, night sceneris from free observatories, leave Umeda for Namba, boozy parfait (Korakuen was pretty nice but there weren't a lot of shade compared to other traditional Japanese gardens. Okayama Castle is just a rebuilt museum but it's pretty nice if you care about history, can read Japanese and want an air conditioned retreat from the heat. Some of the walls and turrets are intact and could be found in the middle of an office park. I wanted to try some peaches as Okayama was known for them so I found a tabelog article listing all the places serving peach parfait. Sadly the local Kissaten I went to said they were not available, probably because they were not in the season yet. I opted for a different peach drink. I probably shouldn't have spent so much time in Okayama and headed straight to Kurashiki after the castle. Ohara Museum was fine albeit a bit pricey but the highlight was the canals and the old houses. Most were closed by the time I was done visiting Aichi shrine and enjoying the panoramic views, but just seeing them from the outside was cool. I would like to come back in a different season and enjoy the town more thoroughly) Day 11: Wakayama Castle, Kimiidera, Tamatsushima Shrine, Kataonami Park, Mitarai Pond, Wakaura Tenman-gu Shrine, Kishu Toshogu Shrine, Saikazaki, Bandoko Garden **Namba Station &gt; Takamatsu Station &gt; Takamatsu Castle Ruins &gt; Mugizo udon lunch &gt; Ritsurin Garden &gt; Kotohiragu &gt; Namba Station** Evening: Donburi dinner near hotel, another boozy parfait (This is the day I spent most of my time in the train. My initial olan was to visit Kotohiragu in the morning but I felt like the detour and transit time would be too much, so I instead went to Takamatsu castle first. Having a moat that was once connected to the sea was cool but there was no Tenshu, the traditional house was closed and the museum was very lackluster. The udon was great befitting the Kagawa name and there were no long waiting as I went there close to the opening time. Ritsurin was stunning and I think I may prefer it over Korakuen. By the time I arrived at Kotohiraguthe shrine was closing, goshuin was not available and all the vendors were closing as well. I still climbed up the stairs and made my way as far to Asahi-sha and had great views climbing down. The shuttered vendors gave off eerie, unique vibes. But I still feel like I should've gone to Kotohiragu in the morning as I originally planned, and that is what I will do the next time I visit Takamatsu) Day 12: Visit places in Kyoto that were omitted, otherwise stay in Osaka for leisurely shopping and sightseeing, head to Kansai airport **Last day of Kansai Wide Area Pass, checkout from hotel, carry luggage &gt; Namba Station &gt; Kyoto Station(keep luggage in coin locker) &gt; Hachiman-bori Moat &gt; Himure Hachimangu &gt; Hachimanyama Ropeway &gt; Observatory, Murakumo Zuiryu Temple &gt; Omihachiman Station &gt; Hikone Castle &gt; Genkyuen Garden &gt; Kyoto Station(pick up luggage) &gt; Haruka express to Kansai** (I contemplated hard on where to leave my luggage. I finally made a decision to keep them at Kyoto station and take the Haruka to Kansai after a tip someone gave me. I spent too much time on the Hachiman mountain but don't regret it. The views of Lake Biwa was lackluster though because of the weather. It was similar to the weather I had in Amanohashidate. Bright skies but cloudy, and the Lake was not very visible. I had to pass through Hachiman-bori quickly and head to Hikone Castle. I was able to explore the castle throughly and also catch a glimpse of the mythical Hikonyan, who I have no doubt was slowly dying in that suit. But I also spent too much time in the castle and had little time remaining for Genkyuen gardens. I dashed for the gardens and took as many photos as I could. The train to Kyoto station was leaving at 2:55 and it was already 2:44. I ran from the gardens to the station and somehow made it. I have never sweated so much in my life.)"}
{"id": "0021", "text": "Long time lurker here, I found the information on Kyushu travel rather sparse, so I thought I would give a brief summary of my experience in the region for anyone considering going. Context: second trip in Japan, group of three friends (M, 20s), interested in history / culture, two of us speak basic Japanese (1 / 2 years of college level classes). None of us can drive so we **only relied on public transit / taxis.** Our schedules only overlapped in summer, hence visiting in June. We adhere to the creed that holidays are meant to be restful rather than intense, so you won't see many early mornings or very packed days (some activities could have definitely been condensed into a single day rather than spread out). TLDR: Best region I've been to so far (despite the heat). Very warm people, nice sights, and way less tourists than in Honshu. Itinerary: Fukuoka (5 nights), Nagasaki (2 nights), Kurokawa (2 nights), Beppu (1 night) **Fukuoka (Dazaifu** \\+ **Nanzoin, Kagoshima, Yutoku Inari)** Day 0: Arrived by plane, airport is right next to the city center (took 15mn by taxi to get to our AirBnB close to Kushida Shrine / Hakata Station). Varied sim stores and exchange counters present at the terminal if needed. Day 1: Exploring **Fukuoka** * Spent exploring the city under very heavy rain. Highlights included: Kushida shrine, Sumiyoshi shrine, castle ruins for city views. Canal city was only worth a visit due to its proximity to our AirBnB (good place to buy a second pair of shoes when your trainers are completely drenched), but otherwise IMO not worth the detour (I mean, it's a mall). Found the Nakasu food stalls kinda overrated (was in Taipei prior to this, so may have been biased due to the great night markets there), instead really enjoyed going into small izakayas / local shops in the Gion / Kushida shrine area. Day 2: **Dazaifu** \\+ **Nanzoin** * Left BnB at 11:30. Took the train (from Tenjin) to **Dazaifu**, overall pretty easy, only IC cards are needed (total 40mn ish). Note that the transfer at Futsukaichi station may be quite short: if you understand Japanese the conductor will announce the platform from which the Dazaifu-line local departs from, otherwise mentally prepare for a few minutes of confusion and running as iirc the signage is not the best. * Dazaifu shrine was nice but quite busy. Highly recommend visiting the far calmer nearby Tenkai inari shrine (only a 10-15mn walk away from the main shrine). Gave up on walking to Kamado shrine as the scalding sun and 32 degree weather was starting to make us regret the previous day's shower. * Took a taxi from Dazaifu to **Nanzoin temple** (30ish min, iirc around 4-5k yen). From what I know, apart if you are part of an organized tour it is basically impossible to get (reasonably quickly) from one to the other by public transit. Plenty of taxis were waiting in front of Dazaifu station. * Reclining Buddha was cool, and the temple complex had various interesting sections. Was surprisingly empty (probably due to the fact that it had began raining heavily again), but by now we had come to grow accustomed to being drenched (imo preferable to being boiled by the sun). Station is right opposite the temple, train runs every 30mn, only IC is needed. Got back to Fukuoka around 5pm. Day 3: **Kagoshima** * Left the BnB at 9:50, took the 10:20 Mizuho, arrived in Kagoshima at 11:36. * **Meiji Restoration museum** was enjoyable, though very little English (furigana present if your Kanji are as rusty as mine). Cool statues and memorials are littered around the area, definitely worth walking around if you are interested in the time period. Found a very welcoming tonkatsu restaurant nearby. * Terukuni jinja and the castle ruins are skippable, apart if you want a Kagoshima goshuin for your collection. * Took a taxi from the castle ruins to **Sengan-en** (15mn, 1k yen). Used the GO Taxi app. Garden was worth the rather steep entry fee, with the visit of the residence being particularly interesting. Not particularly busy, and plenty of good photo spots with Sakurajima in the background. Variety of stores with local goods (tea, sweets...) present. * Took a taxi from the garden to the ferry terminal (15mn, 1k ish yen). Ferry to **Sakurajima** leaves every 15-20mn, and was basically empty (we had the top deck to ourselves). You pay once you arrive on Sakurajima. Once on the island, we walked around a bit, visited Tsukiyomi shrine (which has a nice small observatory), before hopping back on the ferry. Despite not being able to do too much due to time constraints + lack of a car, taking the ferry to and from the island was a magical experience which I definitely recommend. * Rode the streetcar back to the station. Note that they **DON'T take nationwide IC cards**, so make sure you have coins to pay the fare at the front when you get off. Was back in Fukuoka around 8:30 PM. Day 4: **Yutoku Inari Shrine** * My two acolytes ditched me to go shopping, so I took the 1:16 PM Kasasagi Ltd Express from Hakata to Hizen-Kashima on my lonesome. Quite the picturesque ride, with lush ricefields and sprawling mountains dotting the countryside. * Was lucky enough to find a taxi waiting in front of the station, otherwise I think there is an hourly bus that goes to the shrine. Took 10ish mn, cost 1k yen. * Very pretty inari shrine, with a nice view of the region at the top. Met two Japanese students studying the UK who showed me around, and then dropped me back at the station. Seems the inari god was truly on my side! * Didn't want to wait hours for an express, so took the first local train that came to nearby Kohoku station, and from there took an express back to Hakata. A JR ticket machine is present Hizen-Kashima station, and will give you the fastest itinerary, so just follow its recommendations (though do be careful not to accidentally book a Shinkansen segment between Shin-Tosu and Hakata, it will only save you 10mn but cost an extra 2-3k yen + add an unnecessary connection). * Overall a very worthwhile and relaxing day trip if you enjoy shrines and countryside views. Got back to Hakata around 6pm. Day 5: **Nagasaki I** * We couldn't forward our luggage to Nagasaki, so the train ride from Hakata was a bit of a pain. I tried to book oversized luggage seats, but they were all sold out / unavailable. I thus settled for green car, hoping that the additional cost would be offset by an emptier carriage. Relay Kamome had small bins over each seat, as well as a luggage rack which somehow fit all our stuff. Kamome also had completely empty luggage racks. I was not sure if we were allowed to use them, but (unlike oversized luggage spaces / luggage racks on the Tokaido shinkansen) saw no signage. On both trains, the green car was maybe 15% full, in both cases us being the only ones with suitcases. * Settled in before visiting **Oura Cathedral** and the surrounding area**.** A good introduction to the cosmopolitan town that is Nagasaki as well as its deep history, and particularly unmissable for all Fate fans (iykyk). Shrine next to the cathedral was very pretty, though mosquito filled. Day 6: **Nagasaki II** * Left BnB at 11ish. Started with the **Confucius** **temple**, a quiet and interesting visit. Then proceeded to the **Dutch** **slopes**, though only contemplated the quaint houses from the outside. Ate lunch in **Chinatown**, which is worth a walk through but not much else IMO. * Headed to **Dejima**, which, though mostly reconstructed, is nevertheless an intruiging glimpse into the history of the city and the lives of traders under the Sakoku decree. * Walked to **Sofuku-ji** temple. Very nice looking, and was completely empty. Definitely worth the detour. * Took the streetcar (nationwide IC can be used) to the **one-legged Tori** gate. Nearby Sanno jinja is skippable IMO (mosquito heaven). * Took the streetcar to the **Peace Park**. Didn't visit the atomic bomb museum as had recently been to the Hiroshima one. Still an interesting visit, particularly when trying to guess the country of origin of the different statues spread across the park. * Walked to **Urakami cathedral**. Unfortunately by the time we got there it was closed, but still got to see the damaged statues and ruins around the church. * Took a taxi to **Inasayama observation deck** (20mn, 3k yen). Absolutely stunning view. If going by taxi, definitely worth asking the driver to wait 5-10mn for you to snap your photos, as there isn't much else to do and there were no other taxis waiting nearby (shared my ride back to the city with a tourist who had been stranded for 30mn+). Got back around 6:30 PM. Day 7: **Kumamoto + Kurokawa I** * Left the AirBnB at around 9:20. Shipped our luggage from the Yamato store in Nagasaki station to our Beppu hotel. Communication wise rudimentary Japanese and a printed hotel reservation confirmation was sufficient. * Rode Kamome + relay Kamome to Shin Tosu, then switched to a Kumamoto bound Tsubame. * This may be a bit controversial, but I was pretty disappointed by **Kumamoto castle**. Hordes of tourists (more than all previous Kyushu sights combined), large portions still under construction, interior exhibits only in Japanese. I had heard that they had mostly recovered from the earthquake, but to me it seems a lot was still lost. The whole thing had a disney-esque vibe, with the lack of trees making the sweltering heat difficulty tolerable. Nearby **Kato shrine** has a nice goshuin though. * Took the 15:23 Ltd Express from Kumamoto to Aso. I chose the train rather than bus to Kurokawa as 1. I didn't find any that left after 1pm and 2. I get really (REALLY) sick on buses so try to avoid them like the plague. * Arrived at Aso station at 16:45, very scenic train ride. Seems the taxi gods like me because a single taxi was waiting for us. A cheerful ojisan drove us 45mn (7k yen) to our ryokan in Kurokawa, commenting the varied shrines and peaks we passed by in a mix of Japanese and broken English. We stopped at **Shiroyama observatory** on the way for a few photos of the caldera and some fresh air. Day 8: **Kurokawa II** * Chill day enjoying our ryokan. If you can afford it (time and money wise), I really recommend spending two days in Kurokawa, allows you plenty of time to relax and really unwind. * Walked around the town. Lunch was not included in our stay but our breakfast was very filling, so we hopped from cafe to tea shop. The nature around the town is stunning and definitely worth exploring. Day 9: **Beppu** * Took a taxi from Kurokawa to Beppu. Should have taken 1h10, but our driver seemed intent in taking the smallest mountain roads possible, turning into a 2h long torturous (ACless as it broke halfway through) ride. Thought I was being clever and saving time by using a taxi, should have taken the bus. Worst spent 16k yen of the trip. * Did not have high expectations for the **Hells**, but they were actually pretty fun. Note that two of them (Tatsumaki and Chinoike) are located approx 10mn taxi ride away from the others. IMO Umi and Oniishi are worth it, maybe Chinoike, the rest are kinda skippable. Did not visit the ones involving wildlife as the pens looked pretty horrid. * Our hotel was near Beppu Daigaku station. Nothing much to do around, with the area looking like a decrepit version of American suburbia. There was a 711 and a few restaurants nearby, but that was pretty much it. Day 10: **Kitsuki + Shimonoseki** * Took a taxi from our hotel to **Kitsuki sightseeing information center** (30mn, 6k yen). Was warmly greeted, and able to store luggage in coin lockers. Note that there are NO coin lockers at Kitsuki station (10mn ride from Kitsuki city center), so if you come by train you need to go to the sightseeing center to store your stuff. * Very underrated samurai town, which we had basically to ourselves. Visited multiple of the **old houses**, where we were always greeted with open arms. You can either buy tickets for each property individually or a combined ticket which allows you to visit three sights at a discount. Ate lunch at the **Nomi residence** (cool venue, nice staff, and good value for money). Did not go to the castle, contenting ourselves with the view from the **Hitsotsumatsu residence.** * Returned to the information center, where they kindly called a taxi for us (came in &lt;5mn). Bought some tea, before heading to Kitsuki station (15mn, 1.5k ish yen). * From Kitsuki, rode the Sonic Ltd Express to Kokura (runs every hour). Very scenic but also extremely bumpy (I discovered that I could actually get train-sick). * Crossed the Kanmon Strait on a local train, making a quick stop at **Mimosusogawa Park** in Shimonoseki (only worth it for history nerds) before heading off to Hiroshima. I hope this helps anyone planning a trip to northern(ish) Kyushu. As stated at the start, this was a rather chill itinerary and could probably be condensed with more determination and clement weather. Overall, it was pretty doable with public transit and taxis, though I am sure could definitely be more optimized cost wise. Happy to answer any questions!"}
{"id": "0022", "text": "LONG POST. It's been a couple months since my trip! I absolutely LOVED my trip, which was a honeymoon/roadtrip with friends. This is my fifth trip to Japan and definitely more relaxed this time around because the car rental didn't rush us anywhere and we didn't really have set reservations with the majority of the roadtrip except for a couple of dinner spots. Let me know if you have any questions if you're planning a Kyushu roadtrip! I definitely had questions before my trip and I'm glad other redditors were able to help guide me. My original recommendations tag / itinerary plan is here **Car rental and driving experience:** I cancelled my toyota rental and rented with Nissan rent a car as it was a couple hundred dollars cheaper. They checked if you have your international driver license, do a check around the car and give you the keys. It does not cost extra for extra drivers but all drivers need to have their IDL and need to be there when the car is picked up. If other people arrive later in the day and they're not driving, they don't need to be there when you're picking up the car. You can go to another Nissan rent a car if you need to register extra people but it's kind of a hassle. They did not provide instructions but I knew how to operate the car after watching a couple of videos on the car model I received. I rented an x-trail as we have 4 people and 2 L luggage, 1 M luggage, 2 carry on and 4 backpacks. The ETC was easy to use, it was inserted the whole time and it would beep when it's charged. The total ETC charge ended up being approximately 70 USD for 7 days and I only filled up the gas approximately 3 times and each time was approximately 60 dollars. Some cities pump your gas for you, we had to pump once by ourselves. The roads were very narrow on some parts of the countryside. I had no issues driving with a bigger car but a coworker of mine did run over something when he rented a car a couple weeks after me on a similar roadtrip in kyushu. One thing to note is that the paint on the car was really thin. When I got out the car, my purse rubbed against the side of the car and scratched it a little, which was surprising. I would 10/10 drive again, Fukuoka was a little nervewrecking when I picked up the car (in the city near hakata station).. but after driving for a couple hours, I was used to the traffic. Make sure to read up on Japanese traffic rules prior to renting and I recommend watching some driving videos the week leading up to the roadtrip. **Day 1: Fukuoka** * FUK Coffee * Sakurai Shrine Futamigaura Torii * Tsutaya Books * Hakata Issou Honten We arrived at FUK airport around 10 AM and took an uber to our hotel, dropped off our luggage and went to FUK coffee for pudding. It was delicious (ended up going here again when we came back from our roadtrip). Afterwards, I had time for a haircut so I went to my appt near canal city hakata while my husband walked around the area and shopped. After my haircut, we picked up the car, drove to Sakurai Shrine Futamigaura Torii for a sunset view. It's known for eternal love and since we just got married we figured we should stop by (we have been together for 12+ years so it's basically eternal already aha). We stopped by TSUTAYA BOOKS on the Kyushu University Ito Campus for a bathroom break and for additional browsing. When our friends arrived, we got ramen at Hakata Issou Honten. The line wasn't too long and it was really good. Afterwards, we headed back to the hotel \\~11 PM for an early start the next day. **Day 2: Fukuoka to Arita and Takeo** \\- basically followed this to a tee from my itinerary plan * Kouraku Kiln - Treasure Hunting * Arita Sera Porcelain Shops * Sueyama Shinto Shrine * Explore Okawachiyama Village Successfully, followed the itinerary plan and hit all the ceramic places we wanted to go. We started our day in Fukuoka, left majority of our luggage at the hotel as we were going to check back in at the end of the roadtrip and headed to Arita. We started with Kouraku Kiln to go treasure hunting. The prices are online and you do not need to reserve ahead of time. Something to keep in mind is they are closed for lunch (12 PM) and will reopen afterwards at 1 PM. It was fun but also very dusty, I recommend only coming here if you are looking for souviners to take home for a relatively cheap price. After Kouraku Kiln, we went to the Arita shops. There is a shop with a cute bakery and coffee to enjoy our lunch there. After we browsing, we headed to the Sueyama Shinto Shrine which had more ceramic shops around the area and the Torii gate itself was made of ceramics. We headed to Okawachiyama village afterwards to checkout a little quaint town full of ceramicists and their shops. Enjoyed the ceramic filled day! We started heading to our stay around 4 PM to a ryokan called Kaze No Mori and it was amazing. The food, service and stay was amazing. I recommend it and I would definitely return. **Day 3: Hasami to Kumamoto** * Hasamiyakimono Park and shops in the area * Floating Torii Gate of Oou Shrine * Visit Fruit Bus Stops along the way to Shimabarako * Ferry from Shimbarako to Kumamoto * Einoo Tsurugi Shrine This day was a little more hectic. We had a slow start of the day, enjoying our stay at Kaze no Mori and the breakfast was amazing. Afterwards, we checked out around 11 AM and went to Hasami to walk around the Hasamiyakimono Park. There was a tourist center nearby and stopped by an art park/coffee shop called Hiroppa (?) before heading to the floating torii gate of Oou Shrine. Something to note-- I could not figure out the ferry situation. The ferry site didn't let me prepay and the only way to find out if all the car tickets were booked was to call them. With the help of two phones, one for translating and one for calling, we were able to communicate with the ferry workers and they said we should be good for the 4 PM one but it is first come first serve. Meaning, if it fills up, you need to take the next one and I really wanted to get to Kumamoto before sunset so we can see the Einoo Tsurugi Shrine when light was still out. So, we stopped at Oou Shrine for 30 minutes, grabbed snacks at lawsons, took pictures of fruit bus stops along the way, picked up a bunch of strawberries from local farmers along the way and made it to the ferry port with 30 minutes to spare. The experience driving from Takeo to Shimabarako was exciting and the ferry ride was really fun! Once we arrived in Kumamoto, I drove to Einoo Tsurugi Shrine and we took some really cool photos. One thing to note, Google Maps does not take you to the correct parking lot. Look for side roads on the map and you can get real close to the Shrine without hiking up or down steps. Got mcdonalds on the way back to Kumamoto and got dinner at flour + water, since our stay was at Kumamoto OMO3. **Day 4: Kumamoto to Miyazaki** * Mt Aso (tourist center and crater) * strawberry farm!! * Lunch * Takachiko Gorge Relaxing day, we started our day visiting a Robin statue (from One Piece) and stopping at every view point pull in. We arrived at the Mt Aso tourist stop to buy souviners, eat some really good ice cream and have some coffee as it was a bit cold out. Afterwards, we headed to Mt Aso crater and walked around for a bit. I've never been up on a crater before, so it was a great experience. Afterwards, we stopped by a strawberry farm because after we had our first set of strawberries of the season in Japan, we could not stop eating them. We ended up skipping a shrine to enjoy a cool lunch experience at Takamori Dengaku no Sato where we enjoyed sitting on the floor, surrounding a sand pit and cooking our fish and meat! I highly recommend it. After lunch, we drove down to Takachiko Gorge and finally filled our gas for the first time since we started the trip. We decided to do the Takachiho Station, which I thought was only a 200 yen ticket... but that was for the museum part... the actual train ride was 2000 yen. If you are short on time, I would say this is skippable but if you have kids and want a nice 30 mins of relaxation, this is the place to be! When we arrived to the gorge, which was shortly after 4 PM, all the tour groups have left for the day and we had the whole gorge to ourselves. Pretty neat! From here, we headed to Miyazaki. When looking up what to eat in Miyazaki, we found that people recommended charcoal grilled chicken and found a little bar that served it, thought it was very interesting. Afterwards, we headed to our hotel and slept for the night. **Day 5: Miyazaki** * Morning walk from Holiday Inn Resort to Aoshima Island * Grab pastries and coffee at SALUT * Sushitora Kushima Honten * Cape Toi * Udo jingu * YAKINIKU GyuZou Fun day of exploration and eating. All the food we had today was AMAZING. I highly recommend SALUT, their pasteries were fresh and airy. On the way back up, we actually stumbled upon a giant cherry blossom park that was completely empty. We stopped by and took a bunch of pictures without anyone ever showing it-- it's a surreal experience. Cape Toi and Udo Jingu were a great experience and definitely worth going. My favorite meal of the whole roadtrip had to be at Yakiniku GyuZou. It was really worth the money for the amount of meat we received and Miyazaki beef is really.. really good. **Day 6: Miyazaki to Yufuin** * SALUT one last time * Mango Farm visit * Skeluccha Viewing deck * Inukai for photo spot * Yufuin My husband surprised me by reaching out to Ogata Orchard and asking if we can visit even though the mangos were not ripe yet as I am a huge mango lover and would love to see how the mangos are grown. It was a great experience to meet the owner and he was so sweet. Afterwards, we went to Skeluccha viewing deck as it was a fun detour to just explore. It was a bit cold so afterwards, we decided to try MOS burgers before doing a quick pitstop at 2nd street thrift store in Hyuga. We did the quickest pit stop in Inukai as it's a very small town with a photo spot that I've always wanted to visit. Afterwards, we headed to Yufuin, picked up a cake for my Husband's birthday and headed to the ryokan to relax. **Day 7: Yufuin to Fukuoka** * Yufuin Floral Village * Bungoo Train Station (the door from Suzume is there) * Roadtrip through Yame, picking up all the farmer's handpicked teas. * Headed back to Fukuoka and did some thrifting After we checked out of Yufuin, we stopped by the Yufuin Floral Village. It was fun but also very congested because of the tour bus tourists. After an hour or two of walking around and visiting the shops, we headed out of Yufuin. We visited the bungoo train station for the scene from Suzume and spent some time just basking in the sun there and taking photos. Afterwards, we stopped by a small farmers market (variety of veggies and fruits from local farmers sold at a \"grocery store\") to pick up some tomatoes and strawberries. We started our expedition through Yame and shopped at local tea farmers shops. It was so fun driving through Yame and stopping at everyone's little tea shops. I found these tea shops on google maps via street maps. Wherever I saw a little tea stand, I bookmarked it and stopped by when we arrived. Most of the time, people were there so we picked up about 6 teas from 6 different farmers. There are two bigger sellers that sell matcha so we picked those up as well. The scariest part of driving from Yame to Fukuoka was the traffic and google kept redirecting me to side streets which were super narrow, to the point that both cars had to fold in their windows. I'm glad I got through the narrow streets without scratching the car but I will always ask google to not redirect me in the future! **Day 8: Fukuoka** Ended up not going to Hagi and instead stayed in Fukuoka so the others can shop! Since the friends came late the first night, they didn't have a chance to explore Fukuoka. We spent the day just walking around Fukuoka and shopping. We filled up the tank and returned the car. This was the end of our roadtrip and although it seemed like it may be a lot, I thought the flow of things was easy. The driving was not tiring at all and only my husband and I drove. I drove most of the trip and he drove when it got dark. I would highly recommend renting a car if you are going to explore the countryside! **Day 9: Fukuoka to Kurashiki** Booked our stay in Kurashiki at Royal Park Hotel, explored historical district a bit before going to the outlet/mall. **Day 10: Kurashiki** Kurashiki exploration including denim area. We loved Kurashiki and Kojima a LOT. The towns are rich with.. everything. Ceramics, denim jeans, indigo, washi tape.. it was just a really good experience and the hotel was conveniently close to historical town without breaking bank. It was cool seeing denim street and it was definitely less crowded than Kurashiki as it's an hour bus ride south but it was definitely worth it for people that love Momotaro or Japanese denim in general. **Day 11: Kurashiki to Osaka** Our friends loved it so much, they stayed basically the whole day here before heading to their Kyoto stay. My Husband and I booked a stay at Conrad Osaka for our honeymoon and separated from the friends around noon. Conrad Osaka was an amazing stay with amazing service. My husband booked us an afternoon tea as it was strawberry season and I really enjoyed it. For dinner, we tried teppenyaki for the first time. It was expensive but really good. Afterwards, we tried walking through Dontonburi but as I've seen it before and it was really windy and raining hard, we decided to head back to the hotel after seeing the glico running man. **Day 12: Osaka to Uji to Kyoto** Ended up being that my friends tickets got cancelled for nintendo museum because her payment didn't go through so we spent the day exploring Uji and getting dessert :) **Day 13-15: Kyoto -&gt; KIX** Since we've been to Kyoto before, I'm just gonna cut it here as the trip recap is mostly for the roadtrip and Okayama. One thing I've noticed though was it's definitely more crowded this time than October 2023. **Conclusion:** I loved the roadtrip, I can't wait to do it again! Actually, my favorite part of this whole trip was talking to everyone in Kyushu. As some of us are learning Japanese and some of us don't speak Japanese at all, there was a great language barrier. However, with technology, I was able to translate from Eng to Japanese and Japanese to Eng so we can converse with the locals of each town we went to. I had a whole conversation with my hairstylist through google translate, talked to the bakers at SALUT about how they got started in Miyazaki and they asked why we're in Miyazaki all through google translate! The mango farmer explained how the mangos grew and gave us directions to Hyuga through google translate as well. It was an amazing experience, talking to everyone on the roadtrip and everyone was friendly! For my next roadtrip, I'd love to visit Northern Japan in the Autumn as I've been there in the winter and loved it. I would also love to visit Kyushu again and maybe fly into Miyazaki to eat mangos when the mangos are in season and do a southern Kyushu trip to visit Kagoshima."}
{"id": "0023", "text": "***\\*Warning: this will be a long post\\**** This was my second visit to Tokyo, following a trip to Japan in November 2024 with some friends. After being absolutely captivated and enthralled on my previous trip, I booked another trip within a week and a half after returning. This was my first ever solo trip. **Day One (Sunday) - Landed at Haneda** I flew Japan Airlines and landed at Haneda at 5 pm. Unlike my previous trip, immigration and customs was quick (&lt;30 minutes). I had my QR code ready but the airport set up about 20 kiosks for people to scan their passport and take a photo. The QR code wasnt needed at all. However, baggage claim took around 25 minutes. It felt like my luggage was never going to appear. I began to get worried that the airline had lost my luggage. Most people from my flight had left the area but finally, my suitcase appeared. I quickly completed the essentials (wifi box, currency exchange, welcome suica) and rode the trains to my hotel, Sotetsu Fresa Inn Okachimachi in Ueno. The hotel rooms were small but clean and adequate. This room had an adjustable thermostat and air conditioning unlike my previous Tokyo hotel which only had central heating. However, the laundry facilities here were dreadful as there were only two combo washer/dryers for the entire 13 floors. **Day Two (Monday) - Kichijoji, Nakano** * Inokashira Park * Kichijoji Shopping Street * Nakano Broadway Been seeing a lot of reddit posts talking about Kichijoji so i decided to check it out. Before that, I had an early 7 am breakfast at Komedas Coffee at Ueno. I took the train to Kichijoji Station and I walked around Inokashira Park but didn't go to the Ghibli Museum (im not interested in Ghibli). It was raining pretty hard so I was drenched walking through the park. There were very few people walking around so it was calm and peaceful despite the downpour. After leaving the park, I went to a 7/11 to buy an umbrella. Got coffee at Light Up Coffee and walked through Kichijoji Shopping Street. Its a great walk with a variety of stores .It began lightly snowing which was awesome as I had never seen snow falling before. Circled around a couple times, bought some pastries at Linde Kichijji, and hopped on the train to Nakano Broadway. Perhaps it was due to the rain but there were less tourists in Nakano Broadway than I expected. The mall has multiple levels with many Mandarake stores dedicated to collectible figures and anime merch. There is also a supermarket on the lowest level. The surrounding streets and alleyways are filled with restaurants. I grabbed some curry at Garaku Nakano - it was soupy and delicious. I got a haircut and shave in the evening which was refreshing. **Day Three (Tues) - Yanaka, Ueno** * Shinobazu Pond * Nippori Station * Yanaka Ginza/Sendagi/Nezu Began my morning walking around Shinobazu Pond and Shinobazu Pond Benten. This is my second time walking the Ueno Park area and I love it for its peacefulness and green scenery. I walked all the way to Kayaba Coffee for breakfast. I walked in and got lucky they had an open table with no wait. The egg sando and mixed coffee and chocolate Russian drink was delicious and lightly sweet. It was too early for the Yanaka Ginza stores so I made a detour to Nippori. I got ushered/roped into doing a fire prevention training hosted by the Tokyo Fire Department right outside the station and participated in a number of activities like fire extinguisher usage, crawling through a smoke-filled tent, calling the emergency line, bandaging wounds, etc. It was pretty hilarious and fun and I received stickers and a bath bomb for finishing everything. Afterwards, I went back to Yanaka Ginza. There are all lot of small restaurants, grocery stores, coffee shops, and places selling trinkets here. After an early ramen lunch, I walked from Yanaka Ginza to Sendagi, through Nezu, and back down to Ueno. It's definitely a lot quieter and removed from the bustling touristy areas. In my view, there wasn't anything notable but there were a lot of restaurants. It's a healthy walk, though. I went to Kintar Sushi for a second lunch and filled my belly up with a sushi box and chirashi bowl. Unfortunately I felt a bit under the weather after sushi. I thought I had caught covid or something and went back to my hotel to take a nap. I felt much better afterward, and stayed in Ueno for dinner. **Day Four (Wed) - Shibuya** * Yoyogi Park * Shibuya (west of Crossing) * Nintendo World/Pokemon Center Started off my day by Yoyogi Park by grabbing some pastries for breakfast at 365 Days. Its a small, cute store with an impressive selection of sweet and savory pastries. I circled the park and made my way down to Shibuya to the Nintendo World/Pokemon Center in the Parco. Yoyogi Park is a spacious area with a huge field for dogs but I think Meiji Jingu next door is a lot more beautiful and suited for travelers. I didnt get a chance to explore this side of the Crossing the last time I was in Tokyo, so it was nice to see the different stores and malls. It felt like a true downtown shopping district from an American city. Unfortunately, my eye was acting up (it was for the past couple weeks). I thought I had a tear in my retina. Thankfully, the Kato Eye Clinic by Shibuya Crossing accepts walk-in appointments so I was able to get seen. It was about 9000 or 10000 yen for a full exam. The ophthalmologist was wonderful and she spoke English (there is a language barrier with the staff). I got seen and there were no issues detected which was relieving. My eye was dilated which cut my day short but I was able to take the train back to my hotel. I had an unagi set meal for the first time at Unatoto Unagi. It was very rich and filling and Im glad to have tried it but it is a one and done thing for me. **Day Five (Thurs) - Daikanyama, Ikebukuro** * Starbucks Roastery * Ikebukuro Chinatown * Sunshine City/Pokemon Center My plan was to originally visit the Starbucks Roastery and then Shibuya the previous day but I wasn't able to given my eye situation. This became a make-up day. I went to Okayama Denim in the morning, browsed some stores in the area, and then headed to Starbucks Roastery. I picked up some gifts for my family and had a nice cup of coffee and chocolate cake. My only complaint was this area is a bit difficult to access by train so some walking is definitely necessary but the area felt hip and high end. After going to the Roastery, I took the train to Ikebukuro and walked through the different areas including Owl Street and Chinatown. This district seems a lot bigger than how it looks on the map and I hope to explore more of it the next time I return to Japan. Next, I went through the station to the other side and made my way to Sunshine City. Sunshine City was fun but overwhelmingly huge. I think its connected to an aquarium and an observatory too. There is a Pokemon Center here along with a large gachapon store. **Day Six (Friday) - Saitama** * The Railway Museum at Saitama * Hobby Center Kato As a train fan, I had to check out The Railway Museum at Saitama. This was probably one of the greatest museums I have ever visited. Its huge, clean, and full of interactive exhibits. There is a huge room filled with preserved locomotives and rolling stock. There is even a mini track at the end of the museum where you can drive tiny versions of famous Japanese trains like the Yamanote line. You can easily spend half a day here and even a full day if you try all the interactive demos. Depending on where your lodging is, traveling to Saitama is actually kinda far (60+ minutes for me). But if you have time in your trip, I definitely recommend this museum. Afterwards, I went to Hobby Center Kato, a model train store. This place is packed with model trains, parts, and structuresa model train enthusiasts paradise! For dinner, I had some crazy good Chinese food at . The lamb soup and skewers were perfect for keeping me warm on a cold and rainy day. **Day Seven (Saturday) - Harajuku** * Harajuku/Cat Street * Omotesando I always enjoy Harajuku and Cat Street. Its just a fun place to explore especially if youre into Japanese denim - Studio dartisan, Pure Blue Japan, Momotaro, etc. you can find the whole gamut in Harajuku. I walked around Tokyu Plaza Omotesando Omokado but Ill need to come back in the future to explore more. Its extremely crowded but lively. I went to Ometesando Hills next - its all boutique shopping which isnt my thing but the architectural layout of the mall is spectacular. I checked out the streets behind Ometesando Hills and went to another viral coffee shop, Higuma Doughnuts Coffee Wrights Omotesando. I got the limoncello donut, chocolate donut, and the coffee of the day. It was good but social media overhyped this place. Checked out more stores including the Sugi Bee, Flying Tiger, and Herz. Capped off the night with a monster steak and hamburger patty at Monster Grill and drinks at 2nd Cooper. **Day Eight (Sunday) - Akihabara** * Akihabara * Kanda Myoujin Shrine * Yushima Seido * Hijiri Bridge Started my day off at Egg Baby Cafe when it opened. The egg sandwich was good but the fries were lukewarm which was disappointing. Maybe Im just stupid but when the store opened, everyone rushed to save a table with their backpacks, jackets, umbrellas, etc. I was one of the first group of people to order at the counter but wasnt able to find a seat because every table was saved by the people who didnt even order yet! It really ticked me off. Went to Kanda Myoujin Shrine which was bustling and beautiful. There was also a wedding going on which was cool to see. Another nice attraction is Yushima Seido which is very close by. I crossed Hijiri Bridge which offers a magnificent view of the river and the Akihabara skyline. Walked past the river and around back to Akihabara. I specifically chose Sunday because the streets were closed to traffic. Its really cool to see such a wide stretch of road blocked off and seeing people enjoy the entire street. However, its a nightmare browsing the stores due to the sheer number of people. After a nap at the hotel, I went back to Nippori to look at the Edwin denim store. **Day Nine (Monday) - Ueno** Rest day. For dinner, I want to highlight Niku no Ohyama, an izakaya/steakhouse with delicious meats and fried food. I ordered a Hoppy, not knowing you are supposed to mix it with a stronger beverage. I felt like I was just drinking carbonated water. You live and learn I guess. I also had my first coffee jelly dessert at Cafe Galant. **Day 10 (Tues) - Kanda** * Ozeki Gallery * Koami Shrine * Kanda Station/Manseibashi Station Remains * Kotobuki Yu Started my day at the Ozeki Gallery to purchase a tiny light lantern thingy I saw on Youtube. The gallery has a couple floors of lanterns/lights crafted by different artists to enjoy. Next, i went to the Koami Shrine. Its really tiny but the line to touch the Buddha/pray was really long so I continued on my journey.. The Kanda area feels like a financial/business hub. I wanted to explore more but I think I was getting a little fatigued by this point in my trip so I mainly just kept walking. I went past Kanda Station, then past the Manseibashi Station Remains and finally back to my hotel for a break. I hope to explore the Jimbocho area next time! I went to my first public bath at Kotobuki Yu which was a very good experience but I was very shy. I was honestly very confused on what to do (but I made sure to shower myself thoroughly beforehand and didnt dip my face into the pools). Honestly, I felt super stupid at the changing room because I didnt know how to operate the coin locker until I asked some older gentleman how lol. I tried out the different hot/cold pools and sat in the sauna which was crazy hot. Ill definitely do it again now that I have a little more confidence. **Day 11 (Wed) - Kamakura, Hase** * Yuigahama Beach * Hasedera * Kotoku-in * Komachi Street * Tsurugaoka Hachimangu I almost skipped out on Kamakura and Im so glad I didnt. This was my favorite part of my trip. I love big cities but its nice having a break from it. I took the train to Kamakura Station and walked to Yuigahama Beach then to Hase. It was another rainy day so there was practically no one at the beach. It was an empowering feeling knowing that I had made it to the coast of another country. I walked on the beach just to check out the waves. Hasadera is a beautiful temple complex with a lush, diverse garden. It was one of my favorite places and I highly recommend it. It also has a great view of the surrounding town when you climb up the steps at the complex. I then walked to Kotoku-in, the famous giant Buddha. Its actually smaller than what photos make it out to be. There wasnt a lot to do in the complex other than see the Buddha but you can enter the structure after paying a very modest fee. I went back to Hase Station and jumped on the vintage Enoden train back to Kamakura Station. I walked along Komachi Street which is filled with street food vendors and enjoyed some fish cake and curry pastries. I got to Tsurugaoka Hachimangu, another large temple complex (supposedly the most famous shrine in Kamakura?). There is a bit of a climb up the steps to the main hall of the temple! I liked Hasadera more but to each his own I suppose. I walked all the way back to Kamakura Station and took the train back to my hotel. It was a long day and I was exhausted from all the walking. Nothing special, but I went to Bar Luke in Ameyoko for a few drinks. I noticed the drink menu was entirely in Japanese which almost made me leave in a panic but I decided to just use Google Lens to translate. The bartender was cool and the drinks were delicious so it ended up being a good night! **Day 12 (Thurs) - Chiyoda area** * Tokyo Dome City * Tokyo Station/Character Street I went to get a head massage at Mr. Head at the Ichigaya area in the morning. This was my second time at the store and it's honestly such a fun and relaxing experience. As a baseball fan, I had to visit Tokyo Dome. Unfortunately, my trip ended right before the Los Angeles Dodgers played the Chicago Cubs. Otherwise, I would have stayed and went to a game. I also made it a goal to explore Tokyo Station fully after being overwhelmed last time. I took my time exploring the shopping areas and went to the third floor. I picked up some toys at the Tomica shop. The Tokyo Gift Palette on the first floor is this huge shop filled with souvenirs, snacks, and sweets. It's a great place to look for little trinkets and snacks for your friends and family. The area isnt as daunting as I feared it would be as long as you dont let the crowds overwhelm you. **Day 13 (Friday) - Haneda -&gt; fly home** No highlights but I went to get breakfast at j in Ameyoko and ordered their thick toast and it was the thickest piece of toast I had ever seen in my life. **Lessons Learned** 1. Viral stuff isnt significantly better (its about the same as other places). My sister sent me an Instagram post of popular coffee shops for me to try and I went to half of them. While I didnt experience any significant lines, these coffee shops tasted like any other coffee shop. I cant imagine doing the same thing for restaurants and having to wait 60+ minutes for food constantly. 2. Hotel location. I didnt encounter this issue last time because my activities were spread out but I quickly realized that strategic hotel booking is important to minimize on commute time. My hotel was in Ueno but most of the places I visited were in the western/southern side of the city (Shibuya, Kichijogi, Daikanyama, Kamakura, etc) which took longer to get to. While its not *huge* deal, i think its important to cut down on travel time as much as possible. 3. I was very underdressed and unprepared for the weather. It was 35-45 degrees and raining heavily most of the time I was in Japan and I did not have enough warm clothes (even with all my layers on). Unfortunately, Im a pretty thick dude (XXL-3XL in US sizes) so clothes shopping was out of the question and I didnt feel like making a detour to Sakazen. I dont have much experience in colder temps so next time Ill know to bring warmer gear. **Brief Thoughts on Solo Travel** Solo travel isn't for everyone. In my case, I had an amazing time. It's liberating and freeing going about things at my own pace, seeing the things I want to see, and doing the things I want to do. You also avoid the hassle of trying to coordinate activities and schedules with others. I feel like Tokyo is a perfect place for solo travel since a lot of the restaurants can be enjoyed alone. I did feel lonely sometimes as I didn't have anyone to converse with regarding the sights or food. I also felt like I had to be more active in planning for activities if I got through my itinerary early. However, the pros definitely outweighed the cons for me. **Conclusion** Overall, I had an excellent solo trip and enjoyed myself. Thank you to everyone in this sub for providing their trip reports, suggestions, and feedback. I hope to go to Japan again next January!"}
{"id": "0024", "text": "**Big thanks to this sub** so many of your posts helped shape our itinerary. This was a food-first, fall-season trip covering **Tokyo Fuji Kyoto Nara back to Tokyo**. **Travel Dates:** November 19 December 4 We booked **ANA economy round-trip with points** for both of us. Carried 2 checked bags + 1 carry-on each (in hindsight, way too much). Pre-reserved everything possible restaurant bookings, train tickets, even luggage forwarding and it made the trip smoother. Japan e-visa was straightforward, but I recommend applying early just in case. **Day 1 Arrival, Sensoji, Ginza, Shopping and Fine Dining** Landed 5AM at Haneda, took a direct train to Ginza (great with bags). Hotel was 3 min from station. Picked up 72/48hr subway passes and used Suica via Apple Wallet (highly recommend). Quick breakfast from FamilyMart and Lawson egg sando, Famichiki, coffee (buy cup use machine). Stocked up on Fibe Mini + veggie juice helpful for digestion during travel. Visited Sensoji early in light rain peaceful, no crowds. Tourist center has a great photo spot. Nakamise shops were shut that early. Lunch: Ramen Hayashida clean chicken shoyu broth, they use duck to add a gamey richness to the flavor. Back to Ginza: shopping at Mitsukoshi (free membership = 5% off), Ginza 6, TSUTAYA and Loft. Jet lag hit by afternoon. Dinner at Tempura Kondo precise, delicate tempura, seasonal ingredients. Formal vibe but excellent quality (they even change the oil mid-way). Sweet potato &amp; Asparagus tempura was a standout. **Day 2 Toyosu Auction, TeamLab Planets, First Omakase, Shinjuku + Omotesando, Yakitori** Started early with a 5AM taxi to Toyosu Market (plenty available outside hotels). We'd won the auction lottery and had a 5:30AM guided tour highly recommend if youre curious about the bluefin tuna auction. Youre taken right up to the action on a raised platform, and its fascinating to watch how fast and precise it all is. Post-auction, wandered around the vegetable and seafood sections lots to see beyond the restaurants. Breakfast queues were huge, so we grabbed snacks and coffee instead. With time to kill before our 9AM Teamlab Planets slot, we visited Toyosu Manyo Club (great early-bird rate). The rooftop footbath with skyline views and natural spring onsen were perfect to unwind after the early start. Teamlab Planets at 9AM was a great call fewer crowds. Spent \\~90 minutes exploring. Took the bus back to Ginza. Lunch at Sushi Suzuki was the best nigiri of the trip incredibly refined, and the progression was beautifully paced. Very little English is spoken, but fellow diners (local, bilingual) helped bridge gaps. Warm, friendly experience despite the upscale setting. Afternoon in Shinjuku checked out the observation deck at Tokyo Metropolitan Govt. Building, explored Omoide Yokocho, and did classic Don Quijote shopping. Then walked through Omotesando and browsed some flagship stores and boutiques architecture alone is worth the visit. Dinner at Yakitori Hirano in Ginza casual but elevated, with a sake pairing that really worked. They use the Binchotan coal that burns with minimal smoke and odor, preventing flavor contamination of food. The Grilled skewers were perfectly timed and seasoned; fun counter seating and a chill end to a long day. **Day 3 Coffee, Standing Sushi, Streetwear, Transfer to Kawaguchiko** Had a relaxed morning dropped bags with the hotel for forwarding (super smooth, concierge handled everything). Started the day with lattes at Roar Coffee great roast variety and you can choose your beans. Late breakfast at Tachiguizushi Akira (standing sushi). High quality, fast-paced, and flexible you can pre-select your favorites and can repeat pieces. We went heavy on uni and chutoro no regrets. Spent the afternoon in Shibuya and Harajuku picked up running bibs for the Mt. Fuji marathon and did some streetwear shopping (Onitsuka Tiger, etc.). Fall colors were starting to pop lots of bright yellows across the parks and streets. Now for the tricky part: bus transfer to Kawaguchiko. From Ginza, we took the train to Shinjuku Station, then had to find the bus terminal its in another building, a fair walk away, and located on an upper floor. Shinjuku is massive and confusing, and we werent expecting such a sprint before a race plan extra time here. Bus to Kawaguchiko got us in around 7:30PM. Most restaurants were closed, so we had stocked up on konbini snacks and bentos earlier. Ate in and slept early. **Day 4 Mt. Fuji Marathon Fun Run &amp; Ryokan** Checked out of our hotel in the morning great balcony views of Mt. Fuji, with red and gold fall foliage all around. Ran the Mt. Fuji charity fun run (13.5km) stunning experience. Crisp weather (510C, sunny), and by 10AM Fuji was completely visible, towering right ahead on the course. The race was well-organized with food/snacks post-run, and the medal + Mt. Fuji-themed swag (towel, tee, etc.) were top-notch. After cheering on the full marathon runners, we checked out and headed to Ubuya Ryokan for a 3PM check-in. Got a room with a private onsen on the balcony worth the splurge. Ended the day with a cozy shabu-shabu dinner and a long soak. **Day 5 Fuji Sightseeing** Started with a traditional Japanese breakfast at Ubuya grilled fish, miso soup, pickled vegetables, egg, and tea. Checked out and spent the day exploring the area. Walked to Oishi Park for postcard views of Mt. Fuji over Lake Kawaguchiko peak fall colors made it extra scenic. Had pastries at amazing Patisserie Esperance and tried Cremia ice cream. Then hopped on the Fuji sightseeing bus, which loops around key spots like Maple Corridor, Kawaguchiko Music Forest, and Chureito Pagoda (you wont hit everything in a day, but its a relaxed way to get around). Dinner at Hotel - Ishiyaki Style hot stonegrilled wagyu beef, rich and tender with seasonal side dishes. Simple, satisfying end to the day before turning in. **Day 6 Mishima Shinkansen Saga, Arrival in Kyoto, Rainy Evening** Slow morning soaked in the last views of Mt. Fuji before checking out. Had an early lunch at Chante le Vent in Kawaguchiko cozy floral caf with excellent Japanese-style curry and brewed coffee. Also started binging on local fruits, especially strawberries so sweet and fresh everywhere from here on. Took the bus to Mishima Station for the Shinkansen to Kyoto and then came the chaos: we rushed onto the train and I accidentally left my backpack on a station bench. Panicked, but the train staff were incredible they called Mishima Station, confirmed the bag was there, and we got off at the next stop to turn back. Sure enough, the bag was still untouched the staff just smiled and said, \"No one touches personal belongings here\" Seriously impressive. We lost about an hour but hopped on the next train using our same ticket (in unreserved seats) smooth process. Arrived in Kyoto, grabbed a quick McDonald's snack (shrimp burger + shaka shaka chicken both worth trying), then checked into our hotel near Marutamachi Dori &amp; Gyoen Garden. Evening walk in the rain through Nishiki Market and Gion the warm lights and reflections made it feel magical. Ended the night with a teppanyaki dinner at Steak Mouriya Kobe beef cooked in front of you, perfectly tender, rich, and balanced. Took the bus everywhere in Kyoto super efficient and easy to navigate. **Day 7 Arashiyama, Temples, Fall Foliage, Kiyomizudera Illumination** Started early in Arashiyama even at sunrise, crowds build fast in Kyotos major spots. Went first to Giji Temple for a calm walk around its moss gardens. Then walked through Tenryuji Temple and its garden paths, surrounded by peak fall foliage reds, yellows, and oranges everywhere. Lunch at Shigetsu, inside Tenryuji a serene Buddhist vegetarian meal served on floor mats, beautifully presented and deeply flavorful. Then wandered the main street for snacks and souvenirs (lots of sampling!). Had nice Taiyaki at Mamemono to Taiyaki. Next: Ryoanji Temple peaceful and uncrowded, with wide walking paths and a quieter vibe. Then to Kinkakuji (Golden Pavilion) striking reflection on the pond, gleaming against the fall trees. Crowded but worth it. Late afternoon in Higashiyama, visiting Yasaka Pagoda (Hkan-ji) and sipping incredible matcha at Gokago best we had all trip, ended up buying a lot (shouldve bought double). The narrow sloping lanes were buzzing with energy. Walked up to Kiyomizudera for the night illumination visually stunning with light filtering through the autumn leaves, but absolutely packed. Could barely move hands while walking, so we left sooner than planned. Took a taxi (traffic was heavy) to Tempura Kawatatsu for dinner cozy, 8-seat traditional spot. Tempura set meals with sake pairing, low tables, and a chill crowd. Lovely 2-hour dinner, with fun conversation from the locals. **Day 8 Fushimi Inari, Philosophers Path, Soba &amp; Kaiseki** Early start at Fushimi Inari hiked halfway up under a clear blue sky. Peaceful and energizing. From there, we went north toward Yasaka Pagoda and Yasaka Shrine fewer crowds than usual since many shops were still closed in the morning. Stopped at Ippodo Tea Store for some excellent matcha and gifts, then kept walking north to the Philosophers Path. Calm, quiet stream-side trail lined with trees in peak foliage a perfect contrast to Kyotos busier areas. Lunch at Juugo a tiny soba spot run by a solo chef. You sit at the counter, and watch him hand-cut and serve one perfect dish: cold soba with dipping sauce. Easily the best soba Ive had clean, firm, deeply flavorful. Visited Ginkaku-ji after was our favorite temple garden in Kyoto. Subtle, natural, and atmospheric, especially with the fall colors in full swing. Did some final souvenir shopping nearby before heading back to the hotel. Dinner at Muromachi Wakuden an unforgettable kaiseki experience. Around 1516 courses over 2.5 hours, with an emphasis on pure, seasonal flavors. Dishes were elegant and restrained, letting the ingredients speak for themselves no unnecessary embellishments. Service was impeccable, and the space serene. Popular with locals, and rightfully so. A quiet, refined end to our Kyoto stay. **Day 9 Nara Day Trip &amp; Back to Tokyo** Wed done luggage forwarding the night before (a lifesaver again). Honestly wish we had one more day in Kyoto, but it was time to move on. Took the train to Nara, started with coffee at Rokumei Coffee smooth brews, minimal interiors, great start. Then wandered Nara Park, where the famously polite bowing deer gently nudge you for treats. Fun, slightly chaotic, but charming once you get the hang of it. Visited Tdaiji Temple hands down my favorite temple structure of the trip. The scale is stunning this massive wooden building houses a towering Buddha statue, and the architectural detail is breathtaking. The surrounding gardens were glowing in fall colors. Lunch at Wakakusa Curry got the 4-curry combo to try a bit of everything. Flavorful, comforting, and totally different from Japanese curry chains. Topped it off with some fresh hand-pounded mochi nearby soft, warm, and deeply satisfying. Took the sightseeing limited express back to Kyoto, then caught the Shinkansen to Tokyo. Caught one last glimpse of Fuji from the train window, framed in golden light felt like a perfect sendoff from the Kansai region. Back in Tokyo that evening, we visited Rikugien Gardens for the autumn night illumination a quiet, romantic spot with softly lit trees and reflecting ponds which gave it a peaceful, intimate vibe. Lots of locals, especially couples on dates. A lovely way to re-enter the city. Wrapped up the night with dinner at Ramen Nishino a delicate, fish-based broth where the bonito hits first, followed by a light shoyu finish. The soup is airy, clean, and deeply comforting. Topped with silky shrimp wontons, it was the kind of bowl that warms you without overwhelming. **Day 10 TeamLab Borderless, Azabudai Hills, Omakase, Mega Illumination, Neapolitan Pizza** Started early from our hotel right next to Akasaka Station super convenient for getting around. Had nice coffee at % Arabica and then headed to Teamlab Borderless. We had the first time slot highly recommend it for fewer crowds. Take your time exploring; some rooms reveal themselves only if you linger. Stopped for a drink in the Tea Room, which added a nice pause. Spent about 2 hours inside. Next, wandered through the newly opened Azabudai Hills Mall sleek, upscale, and easily my favorite mall in Tokyo. Also checked out the Azabudai Christmas Market, which was small but charming and festive. Lunch was a major highlight: a 33-course omakase at Nishiazabu Taku, with wine pairing. Easily one of the best omakase experiences we had on the trip full write-up here. The meal lasted about 2.5 hours and felt refined yet relaxed. Post-lunch stroll to the Nezu Museum, with its serene garden paths and traditional architecture a great reset after a big meal. Evening at Tokyo Mega Illumination (Tokyo City Keiba racetrack) lesser known but well-executed, with glowing light tunnels, animated exhibits, and plenty of space to walk around. Dinner at La Tripletta, a bit further south but totally worth it. Classic Neapolitan pizza chewy, blistered crusts from the wood-fired oven. We tried the mushroom veggie and salami pizzas both cooked to perfection. Casual but satisfying end to a long day. **Day 11 Azabudai, Akihabara, Omakase-Kaiseki Meal** Started the morning near Azabudai Hills at **Maison Landemaine** a classic Parisian-style bakery with incredibly flaky pastries and great coffee. Also grabbed cookies from **chir**, known for their famous butter a nice edible souvenir. Then spent the afternoon in **Akihabara**, Tokyos mecca for anime, games, and electronics. We were on a mission to find a **Cardcaptor Sakura wand**, which we did! Also browsed **Gachapon Hall**, retro game stores, and the multi-floor **Yodobashi Camera**, which is an experience even if youre not buying tech. Dinner at **Ichi-u**, a refined restaurant offering a mix of **kaiseki and sushi omakase**. The evening begins with a cup of sake; soup and steamed dishes are then served. After the sushi, **takikomi gohan** rice with a variety of ingredients concludes the meal, showcasing a broad range of technique. Presentation is thoughtful, and they have a strong wine list, which paired surprisingly well throughout the meal. The space is intimate, and the service was warm without being formal. The area around **Shirokane-Takanawa** (where the restaurant is located) felt quiet and upscale a nice contrast to Akihabara earlier in the day. **Day 12 Yokohama Day Trip, Christmas Illuminations, Comfort Food** Took an early train to **Yokohama**. Breakfast at **Bills Yokohama** by the waterfront fluffy **ricotta pancakes** with a breezy ocean view. Relaxed and scenic start. Next stop: the **Cup Noodles Museum** genuinely fun and creative. You design your own cup, pick custom flavors and toppings, and even watch the sealing process. Sampled different noodle styles at the **Noodles Bazaar**, styled like an international food court quirky and worth it. Then strolled around **Yamashita Park**, the **Red Brick Warehouse**, and **Osanbashi Pier** wide open harbor views and modern design make it a great walking area. Headed back to **Ginza** and joined the famous **Ginza Kagari** queue waited about 1.5 hours, but absolutely worth it. Their signature **creamy chicken paitan ramen** is rich yet refined a silky, almost broth-like potage with tender chicken, seasonal vegetables, and a drizzle of truffle oil. Clean, warming, and deeply satisfying. In the afternoon, walked through the **golden ginkgo trees of Jingu Gaien** peak color, glowing yellow everywhere. Stayed on for the **evening illumination**, then wandered through **Omotesando**, **Minami Aoyama**, and **Roppongi Hills** to take in the Christmas markets, lights and street displays Tokyo does winter lights incredibly well. Wrapped the night with the chaos of **Shibuya Scramble**, then dinner at **Hikiniku to Come** a hidden gem for **charcoal-grilled hamburger steak**. You grill each patty yourself at the counter; the texture and smokiness are incredible. Ended the night with a classic **FamilyMart souffl pudding** (honestly had one daily by this point), and a few drinks at a nearby **izakaya**. **Day 13 Kitchenware Haul, Good Food and Tokyo Tower Views** Started the morning at **Menya Itto** famous for their **tsukemen (dipping ramen)**. The noodles were thick, springy, and served cold alongside a deep, umami-rich chicken and seafood broth. Rich without being heavy easily one of my favorite bowls of the trip. Then headed to **Nakamise Dori** for a bit of street food and people-watching. Tried a few snacks and made our way to **Fuglen Caf** great spot for a pour-over. Also shopped for some more souvenirs. Next up: **Kappabashi Street**, aka kitchenware heaven. We went in for a look and came out with **sake sets, ramen bowls, handmade glasses**, and even a **custom knife**. Some shops cater to restaurants, and a chef wed met earlier actually pointed us to specific stores for good quality goods. Highly recommend if you love to cook! Dinner at **Hatano Yoshiki** was another highlight a very well balanced omakase. What really stood out was the chef himself speaks great English, super friendly, and happy to explain each dish in detail. The vibe is lively and warm, and even though we were the only non-Japanese guests that night, it felt incredibly welcoming. Some of the plating and ingredients were also totally unique not your typical sushi omakase. Ended the evening at the **Tokyo Tower top deck**, then circled back to the **Azabudai Hills Christmas Market** for one last round of lights. The lighting here was the best we saw in Tokyo, and the **hot chocolate** from one of the stalls was surprisingly great rich, not too sweet, and perfect for the walk. **Day 14 Final Bites, City Strolls, and a Tokyo Sendoff** Started the day walking through the **Harry Potterthemed entrance of Akasaka Station** a small but magical touch on our way out. Checked out, finished final packing, and went for one last **omakase at Sushi Satake**. The chefs style stands out with slightly warmer sushi rice, larger cuts, and especially high-quality tuna. A bold, satisfying end to our sushi streak. Spent the afternoon wandering **Meiji Jingu** and **Yoyogi Park**, soaking in the calm before heading to **Roppongi Hills** and **Shiba Park** to get a final photo of **Tokyo Tower** lit up against the evening sky. Our final meal was at **PST Pizza** Tokyos take on **Neapolitan pizza**. Made in a locally crafted wood-fired oven, with Japanese flour and a touch more salt than Italian tradition, their pizzas had a **crackly, blistered crust**, and perfect balance of chew and char. The **Tokyo Neapolitan** is a must-try if you love pizza! Took a taxi to the airport for our **11:30 PM departure**. Landed at **JFK around 11PM**, where **ANA kindly replaced my broken bag with a high-quality new one** a final reminder of Japans unmatched service standards. **Final Thoughts** This trip was unforgettable **peak fall, peak food**, and full of warmth in every sense. Already dreaming up a return for **early 2026**. Would do it all over again, in a heartbeat."}
{"id": "0025", "text": "Hello! It's been about a week since we've gotten back and I'm finally ready to share our trip. Just to set the tone, we did 100% touristy stuff that was kid friendly since I have 2 kids (1yr and 3yr). We're also big pokemon fans. We traveled with family (13 in total) and most of our time was in Tokyo and did a 3 day break in Osaka. Day 1 - Sunday We landed in Haneda and it was pretty packed. Took a good chunk of time to get out, and we needed to wait even longer for some family that took a later flight (Only an hour later but still). We booked an airbnb in Taito that didn't allow for baggage to be delivered so we couldn't forward our baggage. We took the train, which was so difficult with everyone tired and with luggage as first timers. Definitely not doing that again. We'll take a taxi next time haha. We basically knocked out as soon as we got there. (Landed at 11am and got there at 5pm). Day 2 - Monday Everyone was up by 5am and weirdly we were wide awake. Not as tired as we thought we would be. Also why was it sooo bright outside so early! We took the early morning to discover 7eleven which of course was magical lol. We didn't have anything really planned for today because we thought we'd be dead tired and had big plans the next day. But we decided we wanted to do something so everyone kinda split up. My husband and I took the kids to a nearby park that had a little shrine nearby. It was super cute. Very quiet! Even when they brought the little preschoolers out it was pretty quiet. (I ASSUME PRESCHOOL, They came out in wagons). We decided to meet up with our group and walked to Asakusa. We went to the shrine, the DonQuixote and a bunch of the food shops nearby. All the food was so good! Day 3 - Tuesday We went to Tokyo Disneyland! It was so much fun and soo baby friendly. I feel like their baby centers are way more abundant and clear than the one in California. I was always able to find a place to go inside to change my kids and feed them. And the food??? So good! Baymax Burger was super cute! The lines were pretty long but kids rides are pretty fast moving so it was fine. We were also there while they were celebrating Donald Duck's birthday so we saw a bunch of parades regarding him. They really liked him hahaha. We ended up taking a taxi to and from here and oof that was a pretty penny. We decided if we REALLY thought we needed a taxi we'd do it but we really needed to learn the train. I think I was just avoiding to take the train with our big group lol. Day 4 - Wednesday Rest day! We went to Costco and I bought some clothes. Our family was suffering some crazy culture shock and wanted to make familiar food. I kept getting side tracked with the clothes. Mostly for my boys. My youngest was turning 1 the next day so we also got a cake. And of course I had some chowder from the food court lol. My husband went fishing with the guys in the group. He said he was able to buy a fishing license in the shop he went to and the guy who worked there even gave them some ideas where to go fish. Even old men passing them by would tell them what kind of fish were in the waters. Later that night Day 5 - Thursday Tokyo DisneySea! I think we liked this one even better than Disneyland. The food basically had a little bit of seafood everywhere and my husband and I were obsessed. We LOVED the little mermaid area. That was so cool. My boys did too! We were noticing that the gift shops there and Disneyland had lots of different type of merch than in the US. Like towels! LOTS OF TOWELS. Hand towels, Big towels, face towels, children's hooded towels, kitchen towels. Picnic mats, chopsticks, dishware, oh and LOTS of snacks/ chocolates. Very pretty and intricate designs. And I just loved the little preview cases they did for food. I loved seeing how the snacks/chocolates were supposed to look. They even did this for the restaurants it was so convenient. DAY 6 - Friday We took the morning to celebrate my youngest since his birthday back home was this day. Let him get all caked up and everything. We then headed out to Akihabara but all the shops where we got off were not very Stroller friendly. Or at least the shops our group was going around. Lots of stairs with little to no elevators. And it was raining so I was getting tired of waiting outside with my boys. So we split from the group and walked to Shibuya. Did the Shibuya Crossing. Went to Uniqlo, and then did our first Pokemon Center. That was super exciting lol. We took the train home and it was finally starting to make sense to me lol. Day 7 - Saturday We took the Bullet Train to Osaka! It was pretty comfy! The seats were more spacious than I thought they'd be? The time passed quickly and we did pretty decent job navigating the trains from here. When it was just me and my husband and kids, we did just fine. I ended up finding the option on Google to put on accessible directions to elevators and stuff that day to help us out with our strollers. We got situated in our Airbnb and went out to a ramen place nearby and it was amazing of course. We made a bit of a faux paux though and accidentally stayed a bit after they started closing. Back home some ramen places do the closing during mid day but I usually see the times on Google, I didn't see it this time! We were apologetic and left immediately. Day 8 - Saturday Universal Studios Japan! We met my uncle there and had lots of fun. Of course I loved the food, but it was here that I was confused about their spicy food. It wasn't spicy??? We're Mexican American so we're used to spicy. I thought the Japanese were too but my uncle told me otherwise. I was genuinely shocked lol. The Peanuts are bigger out there than I thought as well. I've never seen so much Snoopy merch! And I loved all the cute Hello Kitty stuff. The food was cute and good! And they were doing Easter Stuff???? IN JUNE???? That tripped me up a lot lol. I asked my uncle why and he said it's not a holiday there so the time isn't important. WELP lol. Nintendo World was amazing! It looked so good and my husband was so hyped for DonkeyKong, everything looked amazing and the rides really fit the individual games. But it was PACKED. Mario,Luigi and Toad came out and that was pretty cool! Day 9 - Monday Honestly sad we didn't spend more time in Osaka. We went the rest of our family off to the shikansen to head back to Tokyo early. My husband and I went and dropped off our bags at a baggage holding place and went out to eat some Duck Ramen. SUPER good! Then we went to the Pokemon Center nearby. Kinda bummed we didn't have enough time to go to the other pokemon center but we kept getting lost in the mall. Took the Shinkansen back to Tokyo! Vowed I'd stay in Osaka longer next time we came. Day 10 - Tuesday Made the treck to Sanrio Puroland. This one was mostly for me lol. And I loved it. Not a lot of rides or anything but i really liked the merch lol. And omg the cafeteria area actually had REALLY good character food!!! The train back was pretty relaxing we almost fell asleep lol Day 11 - Wednesday Rest Day! At least until late. We got some of the girls to watch our boys while my husband and I went out to eat. Everything we kept getting to go to was closed but we finally found this little place that you paid a machine first and got tickets and it was super customizable. Honestly my favorite place. It was like ramen but without the broth. The server told us we needed to mix the noodles in a sauce that would be pooled at the bottom before eating. It was so savory and UGH I don't know where I can find anything like it back here I might actually go crazy. After eating we walked it off by going all the way to Ueno station. Looked like a lot of bars around there so we walked by and then circled back and walked back to the airbnb. Day 12 - Thursday We went back to Asakusa to rent kimono!! It was a super cool experience. We walked around and ate all the taiyaki we could find and of course sweets too. Once we changed out, we headed to Tokyo Skytree. We didn't go all the way to the top. Some people in our group got reservations to the Kirby Cafe so we walked around the shops, did the Pokemon Center, saw a Ghibli pop up, ate food, bought stuff from a Bakery. They have this really cool play area for kids we stayed at for like a hour. My oldest loved it so much it was so hard to get him to leave without crying haha. We wanted to go back just me and my husband but we never got to! Day 13 - Friday Rest day! Took the boys to another park. This one seemed a bit bigger. Otherwise a pretty lazy day. Day 14 - Saturday We went to the Imperial Garden and we could not for the life of me find the Imperial Castle or the Edo Ruins. They were either blocked or that wasn't the actual entrance. Kinda bummed I didn't have more time to figure that out. Went nearby to the Pokemon Center, ate some ramen, then went to Akihabara to go to the Lafayette to check out the Sailor Moon store. Then we found a place that did lobster rolls and that was pretty good too. Day 15 - Sunday Went back to the area from yesterday to do the Pokemon Cafe and loved every second. My oldest was really into Pikachu dancing it was super cute! The food was good too! Day 16 - Monday My husband spent all day finishing with the guys trying to catch SOMETHING. ANYTHING. He had no luck at all in Tokyo. Went to a bunch of spots. Super sad. While he did that, Me, some girls and my boys went to Ikebukuro. We used a pretty old looking station. It was kinda small but you could see a bunch of train tracks and lines. It was actually kinda pretty. We went to the Animate store, the Pokemon Center, the mall and ate a bunch of food. Found out about my husband's awful luck when we got back lol. My poor husband. We also went back to that one noodle place We went to a while back. The guy recognized us! He was more open to talking to us this time around too. I just had to have those noodles again before we left. Day 17 - Tuesday We were getting ready to go home so we made some souvenir trips to Asakusa. The same shops we saw the first time around, but also stopped on this street that had a bunch of cooking / kitchen stuff. My husband loves to cook and got himself some Japanese knives he's been eyeing from their online store. They're really pretty and I'll never touch them hahaha. My husband and I went out later by ourselves to and izakaya and had some amazing food. Grilled fish, sushi, curry, crab croquettes. It was right next to our Airbnb too! Day 18 - Wednesday This was our last day and we just finished packing, getting snacks and just spending money on our Welcome Suica cards lol. The airport good was so good though??? So many great options. I feel like Tokyo was a good starter city. Everything has an English menu or translation. Even the trains translate to English. And there is just so much to do there. For our next trip there (which we're already planning!!) We want to go to Okinawa and Osaka and focus on that area next. Do Nara, Kyoto, Nagoya... We had a great time. LOVED the food, MISS the food. All the ladies loved my boys. Especially my youngest. The flowers there were so pretty and ... flat?? But it was beautiful!!! Like their flowers were TOO perfect looking. And even though it was late May- June, the weather was great! We don't get a lot of rain back home so we loved it. And it wasn't hot at all like it is here now. There were some sunny days too and even those days were pretty good. One thing I forgot to mention was even the malls there had baby feeding areas! Nothing like back home! I didn't need my cover at all. I could easily find a feeding area to feed my baby. I guess if there's any questions go ahead and ask I know I was all over the place trying to make this post make sense while writing it. I was just so excited and ended up remembering all the things we did and yeah just amazing. I can't wait for next time."}
{"id": "0026", "text": "Hi everyone! Just back from a fantastic 21-day Japan trip with my partner. Heres our full itinerary plus some valuable insights, reflections, and practical advice for future travelers. Hope it helps! # Detailed Itinerary: **Day 0 (Arrival in Tokyo)** * Evening: Tokyo Station underground street dinner. **Day 1 (Tokyo)** * Imperial Palace Gardens, Tsukiji Fish Market (grilled squid) * Botanical gardens (roses) * Shibuya Scramble, shopping, Kanto-style gyoza &amp; beer, dinner at Sushiro (Tokyo Station) **Day 2 (Kamakura Day Trip)** * Giant Buddha, local train experience * Evening: Shopping in Shibuya (Uniqlo), dinner at Tokyo Station **Day 3 (Nikko &amp; Asakusa)** * Brief morning in Asakusa (temples, shopping streets) * Nikko (missed Tobu Limited Express but saw main temple area &amp; pagoda) * Returned to Tokyo around 5 PM **Day 4 (Tokyo Osaka)** * Shinkansen to Osaka, boxed lunch * Afternoon: Namba area, Den Den Town, cookware street, takoyaki * Dinner: Wagyu beef BBQ **Day 5 (Osaka)** * Universal Studios Japan (Express Pass recommended) * Dinner: Nakago Sushi **Day 6 (Nara Day Trip)** * Lunch at Mizuya Chaya (Udon) * Evening: Americana Village, giant sushi rolls **Day 7 (Osaka)** * Osaka Expo (crowded), Osaka Castle * Rest afternoon, dinner wagyu beef **Day 8 (Osaka Kyoto)** * Nishiki Market lunch, walking tour * Hotel Ala Kyoto (highly recommended) **Day 9 (Kyoto)** * Fushimi Inari Shrine, Yodobashi Camera shopping * Evening: Geisha district (Gion), rooftop dinner **Day 10 (Kyoto)** * Arashiyama bamboo forest, preservation street, Golden Pavilion (Kinkaku-ji) * Laundry mishap (hotel) **Day 11 (Kyoto Kanazawa)** * Hotel Kanazawa Nikko * Omicho Market lunch, Kanazawa Castle, Kenrokuen Garden * Dinner: Tempura **Day 13 (Kanazawa)** * Yamashiro Onsen public bath (Kaga Onsen) * Nagamachi Samurai district, Geisha district * Dinner: Sushi at Akamechan **Day 14 (Kanazawa Tokyo)** * Shinkansen to Ikebukuro, Hotel Metropolitan * Anime/manga exploration, Bic Camera flagship store * Dinner: Kura Sushi **Day 15 (Tokyo)** * Shiba Park, Tokyo Tower, Roppongi Hills * Rainy evening in Shinjuku **Day 16 (Ueno, Tokyo)** * Ueno Park, Ameyoko shopping street, specialty knife shopping * Dinner at the apartment **Day 17 (Asakusa &amp; Akihabara)** * Sky clothes shopping in Asakusa, Akihabara side streets * Yodobashi mega store, dinner at Sushiro **Day 18 (Odaiba &amp; Shinjuku)** * Odaiba Island, Tokyo Bay, motorcycle accessories shopping * Night in Shinjuku: Memory Lane &amp; Golden Gai **Day 19 (Shibuya)** * Shibuya Stream Hotel * Harajuku shopping, Meiji Shrine, Yoyogi Park, convenience store lunch in the park * Shopping and steak dinner near hotel **Day 20 (Last Shibuya Day)** * Final shopping: Loft, Daiso, Hands, Don Quijote * Purchased extra suitcase (many souvenirs!) * Dinner at Sushiro **Day 21 (Final day, rainy)** * Last-minute shopping (drugstores, toys, Donki) * Pasta lunch at hotel mall (Pasta Brothers) # Essential Tips &amp; Observations: * **Trains &amp; Shinkansen:** * No reservation needed for Shinkansen; buying tickets on the day was easy. * Google Maps was extremely accurate (use exact hotel-to-destination addresses). * **Daily Activity:** * Averaged 25,000 steps/day. Pack light! * **Shopping &amp; Specialization:** * Japan has unmatched variety. Found everything imaginable from model kits to washing machines in a single store. * Bic Camera &amp; Yodobashi were impressive for tech/gadgets. * **Universal Studios:** * Highly recommend Express Pass to avoid 50-min queues. * **Cash &amp; Cards:** * Cash is king, especially at smaller eateries. * Apple Pay limited; physical card preferred where accepted. * **Japanese Courtesy:** * Locals were incredibly helpful, often using translators to assist. * **Bathrooms &amp; Convenience:** * Clean, free bathrooms everywhereextremely traveler-friendly. * **Food Adventures:** * Language barriers led to surprise dishesalways delicious. If you're picky, be cautious! * **Rush Hour:** * Less chaotic than expected, especially if you travel against the main flow. * **Style &amp; Vehicles:** * Noticeably stylish locals, each with unique fashion. * Incredible variety of cars and motorcycles, from luxury Ferraris to quirky designs. # Key Recommendations: 1. Buy a Japan Rail Pass if extensively traveling by train. 2. Use Google Maps extensively (platforms, entrances, exits). Balance card usage with plenty of cash. 4. Embrace food surprisespart of the fun! 5. Reserve an Express Pass for major theme parks. # Final Reflection: Japan seamlessly blends traditional charm and futuristic efficiency. Each day brought delightful surprises, making us constantly eager for \"just one more block\" exploration. Truly unforgettable. Happy travels! Feel free to ask for more tips or details."}
{"id": "0027", "text": "Hey everyone! My husband and I just returned from our trip to Tokyo and I have wanted to share my trip report. I was 23 weeks pregnant on the trip and I hope this post may be helpful for any future travelers thinking about Tokyo who are also expecting a baby :) Day 1: We flew from Seattle to Haneda Airport and arrived at ~2 PM. Customs was quite quick and took us 30 minutes in total, albeit most of that time was spent rapidly walking through the VERY long lines. Afterwards, I directly downloaded the Welcome Suica and Airalo 10GB plan while we were still at the airport. The 10GB may have been overkill but I was determined to use Google Maps for all of my navigating and also wanted to use the Papago app for translation purposes. We then Ubered to our hotel as I was a little tired and didn't want to navigate the rail system quite yet. We each packed a duffel bag with enough clothes for 4 days. I also chose a hotel which provided a washer/dryer for guest use because frankly I don't like carrying luggage around and neither of us was planning on buying a lot. We did some exploring in Ueno Park after checking in to the hotel and went to the 7-11 near by to withdraw currency. Day 2: I had contacted a volunteer guide group about 2 weeks before our trip. I think the concept of these is awesome and I enjoyed the experience of hanging out with someone who was very confident in their knowledge of the neighborhoods. We used the SGG Goodwill Guides Group, which primarily connects multilingual retired Japanese folks to interested foreign travelers. The group's participants can spend a max of 3 days with the travelers and it is expected that the travelers cover the cost of transportation and lunch. They don't generally like larger groups so I would only opt for the volunteer guide option if you're in a party of 4ish or less. You are required to fill out an application at least 2 weeks ahead of your travel date and specify what you would like to see. Afterwards, the group circulates the application amongst its members and matches you with a volunteer. Our guide Ken was about 70, originally from the Kansai region, super fit, and worked on Wall Street for about 15 years in his youth before heading back to Japan. He met us at our hotel and we spent nearly the whole day with him and parted ways at ~4:30 PM. I had previously expressed in my application form that I was interested in seeing Shinto shrines, Buddhist temples, and smaller gardens in the Asakusa and Ueno neighborhoods so we did a lot of exploring there, including the Senso-Ji temple. Ken and my husband are both into trading market so they had a good time chatting about the state of American and Japanese stock markets. He was super pleasant to talk to and we ended up discussing everything from corporate culture in Japan vs America, Japanese Shinto practices, kabuki and Noh performances, the differences between the healthcare systems of both countries, and even some more spicy political topics that he brought up himself lol. We went to a lot of smaller gardens where nearly all of the visitors were middle aged to elderly Japanese people and zero tourists. Ken was nice enough to help us get tickets. He brought a guide badge so that his tickets were generally free (but FYI you are also expected to cover your guides ticket costs if they don't have one for some reason). I highly highly recommend volunteer guide groups with retirees! Day 3-8: We explored Shinjuku, Shibuya, more of Ginza (specifically the Seiko museum and surrounding areas) Kanda, Shimokitazawa, Koenji, Roppongi, Jinbocho book town, more of Ueno/Asakusa, and briefly stopped in Akhibara. We did not go to Tokyo Tower or Shibuya scramble but did see Meiji Shrine. Some of the highlights: * Meeting a group of drunk businessmen at an outdoor izakaya on Ameyoko market street in Ueno. Basically, one of them randomly tapped me in the shoulder and handed me these packaged cheese snacks and said \"I love you\" very enthusiastically. We thought this was hilarious so we bought them shots. Afterwards, I found out that two in their group spoke really great English and Spanish respectively so we spent a few hours chatting about work, politics, and even one of their upcoming divorces lol I didn't think I was going to have full blown conversations with people in Japan in Spanish but hey, life is funny that way. The owner bought my husband multiple drinks and chatted with us a bit (and apologized for some of the more crazy members of the group). Apparently they were the owners friends and came to that spot regularly. Overall we had a lot of fun with them. Please check out this market street! Yes, it's \"touristy\" but it's also crammed with cool local spots and such a fun vibe. * S Watanabe woodcut prints in Ginza. This is the real deal. I didn't realize this when we walked in but the Watanabe family has been in the business of ukiyo-e for a long time and the service at this shop was excellent. They have lots of originals and prints reaching as far back as the Edo period. I had a little bit of an awkward encounter here (see my post history) but the experience was excellent overall. My parents are serious art and handicraft collectors so I will direct them here if/when they decide to take a trip. * Suntory Museum of Art in the Tokyo Midtown complex in Ginza. This was another experience I walked into without much knowledge ahead of time but I'm glad I did! We walked through an art exhibit featuring scrolls dating from the 1400s depicting the tale of Shutendji, a legendary Japanese demon and human flesh eater who is destroyed by a brave group of men. I believe that some of the scrolls on display have never been available for the public prior to this installation. The exhibition is very artfully designed and even comes with an extremely detailed audio guide that builds anticipation for the story as you walk through the museum hallways. Tokyo Midtown is an extremely aesthetic and luxurious indoor area with plenty of benches. It was especially hot on the day we came here so it was a nice break. * Every Swing Jazz Club in Ueno! This was such a cool spot. Every patron (except for us) was actually a rotating performer and seemed to be friends going back a long time. They were all probs in their 60s and older. We paid a cover charge and bought some snacks/drinks and listened as this cool group of friends played a bunch of different jazz standards. A few people spoke a little English so they initiated a conversation with us after I explained in that my husband was in a jazz band. The bartender busted out the star spangled banner on his trumpet after he found out that we were American * Jazz Spot Intro in Shinjuku! Very different/younger vibe than the previous place. The talent here is extraordinary and we happened to stumble in on a night when a world class saxophonist and composer was playing. We met a bunch of locals and tourists alike, including a drummer from Osaka who played a few sets, and had a blast. This is a VERY tiny bar and they have no problems cramming people in so be warned if you're a claustrophobic jazz head. The owner knows how to run a tight ship but keeps the atmosphere energetic and fun. * Yoyogi Park in Shibuya was great! There was a big food fest AND a Lao festival while we were there. We even got to see a Japanese punk band perform on an outdoor stage for free which was cool. Ueno Park is a close second for me. * YAYOI KUSAMA Museum! This is a small but interesting modern collection from an extremely successful artist. Some of her displays are interactive so it was a nice change of pace from the typical art museum. * standing room only neighborhood bar in Koenji. I had a strong feeling that it was frequented by a small group of regulars who all knew eachother so we tried not to be buzzkills. We dropped a lot of money here and eventually chatted a lot with the bartender and some patrons with a mix of broken Japanese and Papago. One regular who was a fluent English speaker talked to us a lot and mentioned that he wanted to visit our home state in the US so we exchanged emails and may take him paddle boarding at some point in the future. Koenji was one of my favorite neighborhoods! General Tips: * I highly recommend getting a Welcome Suica and topping it off as you go with Apple Pay. It's extremely convenient and compatible with multiple railway lines. We were frequently at the train station during rush hours so being able to tap and go instantly was great! Also my iPhone ran out of battery once before I left a train station but to my relief the fare amount was still deducted when I tapped my phone. * Airalo eSIM was also a lifesaver, especially with how much we relied on Apple Maps for walking directions. * Getting the ChatGPT app was great for translating handwritten menus/information from Japanese to English. This helped us a lot with eating at places which did not have an English menu and for using appliances at the hotel. * Get some solid and comfy shoes for walking. We were hitting 20k-30k steps per day and it was frequently close to 80 F outside for multiple days of the trip. * Try to learn a few phrases of Japanese while you are here (please, thanks, excuse me, x number of people, how much is this, this please, etc). This isn't Paris; people aren't going to sneer at you for trying. The Papago app is also amazing for inserting a natural-sounded translated sentence if you're struggling with something. * Bring your own small container of handsoap if you are planning on visiting large parks or gardens. Many of the restrooms at these locations do NOT have soap at the sinks. This also applies to train station bathroom sometimes. * Carry your passport with you at all times. This is the law for foreign non-residents of Japan. * Pay attention to your surroundings and try to mirror what others are doing: - Line up for the train the proper way and let other people out before you head inside. Keep your voice volume at the same amount as others while in public. Don't talk on your phone on the train!!! - If you can avoid it, do not bring your 100 suitcases onto the busy platforms during rush hours. There are busy people going to work and doing this takes up space and annoys others. Consider using luggage forwarding. - Do not randomly stop walking while you are on the street to stare at your phone. I saw a shocking number of people doing this even in very narrow yokochos with their giant backpacks, especially middle aged tourists who should know better. The Millennials were more guilty of stopping to take selfies which was also rude imho. If you need to stop to consult your phone, please step away to an area where you will not disrupt others. * Take your trash with you; it's not acceptable to dump it at the nearest konbini. Many of the drink/ice cream vending machines at the train platforms have recycling bins right next to them that appeared to be emptied regularly. Take advantage of this! I would opt for selecting a drink and finishing it at these locations. Pregnancy specific tips: * It goes without saying but please discuss your upcoming trip with your physician to get specific advice on what you can/cannot eat and participate in if you are unsure. My OBGYN happens to be Japanese-American with close ties to the area (speaks Japanese, has Japanese patients, frequently visits family in the country) and was ok with me consuming raw fish provided that it was restaurant food in Japan. She did not want me dunking my entire body in onsen water and told me to save any kimono photo shoots for a postpartum trip as she was cautious about how tight obi sashes are tied. I am pretty fit but I have low blood pressure (90s/60s) so this advice is specific for ME and may not apply to you. * Consider compression socks and multiple pairs of shoes for max foot and leg comfort. Compression socks can also help prevent DVTs if you are flying for a long time. * If you are accompanying drinking family members/friends on a trip, please order teas or nonalcoholic mocktails with snacks and food as you stop at bars and izakayas. Some of these locations rely on small groups of regulars to survive, a group of tourists with nondrinking members can be troublesome. * I don't recommend traveling to Tokyo during the summer (after May) if you're pregnant. The heat and humidity can get pretty intense and there were a few days on our trip where we headed back to our hotel with Pocari Sweat to chill (literally) in the mid afternoon. * Some people here and on the other sub have discussed those \"pregnancy badges\" as a helpful aide for getting the priority seats on the train. IMHO this seemed to be pointless based on my observations. The priority seats filled up every time during busy hours and people dont GAF. * Some people find themselves getting constipated on trips to Japan as the restaurant food we foreign visitors frequently consume on vacation isn't always very rich in fiber. Our hotel did not have a restaurant/breakfast provided so I purchased fresh fruit and veggie salads at konbinis and the outdoor markets. I also ordered meal sets with salads and veggie soups. The quality of fruit at the konbinis was surprisingly excellent. Things I wish I had done: - Booked kabuki tickets well in advance online. I was angling to get a single act ticket online for the Kabukiza Theater in Ginza but the shows were extremely popular during the week that we were there so the single-acts got snatched up pretty quickly. They are not released until noon the day before a performance but you're also competing for them with people who show up extremely early to the ticket box in person. - Booked sumo tickets as soon as we bought airline tickets. These also sell out rather quickly and can go several months in advance of the events. While checking the calendar I saw that a lot of dates in December were already full - Learned more Japanese before my trip! Meeting Japanese people who were confident in their English was cool but we would like to travel to areas besides Tokyo/big cities during future travels. I would like to make it a goal to be much more conversational the next time around. I hope this was helpful to someone!"}
{"id": "0028", "text": "Last December, I traveled across Japan on a 14 day solo trip. I was a bit anxious at first because it was my first big solo trip but it was magical! Being a vegetarian, many people told me that it would be hard to find any good food and that I would have to live off convenience store food. Im here to say that I was pleasantly surprised at the great vegetarian and vegan options I was able to find. **Day 1:** I landed in Osaka late at night and found the trains were delayed due to some operational issue. I was concerned initially but the staff were super helpful in getting everyone on the right train. I got to my hotel late but it was a fun adventure on my first night in the country. I stayed at **Hotel Ataroyo** which offered capsule style accommodation but you could pay a little more to get a bigger capsule. I stayed in the Superior Capsule Room which had enough space for a solo traveller. **Day 2:** I hopped on a train the next morning to Kyoto. I planned my trip to spend more time in Kyoto which was definitely worth it! I dropped my bags off at the hotel and headed off to explore. I spent the whole day just walking around Gion and its little backstreets. There were a few restrictions on where you could go and take pictures but I didn't mind, there were lots of other places to explore. I had lunch at **Zirael Vegan Restaurant** which serves delicious and super healthy vegan platters that come with a generous serving of rice and fresh salad along with some vegan yuzu beer. I closed the day by visiting the Gion Shrine in the evening (it was all lit up and pretty) and trying some yummy matcha sweets. The five nights I spent in Kyoto, I stayed at the **Pocket Hotel** in Karasuma Gojo. The room was clean, spacious and most importantly cheap for a solo traveller. They even let me leave my bags at the reception well before check-in. The bathroom and shower areas are shared and were very clean throughout my stay. Note that bathrooms are not attached and while there were toilets on every floor, the showers were on the ground floor. **Day 3:** I visited Arashiyama on day three. I reached the bamboo forest around 8:30 AM and happy to report that on a cold winter morning the crowds were sparse. There were a few people but nothing crazy (Did get a bit busy later on though). I did the stroll through the bamboo forest and got some really pretty snaps of the valley. I strolled by the river and got some pics from Togetsuky bridge. The highlight of my trip to Arashiyama was the walk up to Daihikaku Senkoji Temple. Its a small Buddhist temple situated atop a hill just beyond the monkey park (which I skipped). Apart from a lovely caretaker lady, I was pretty much the only person there. I spent some time in the peace and quiet and also got some really great pics. Highly recommend visiting this little temple. Note that there is a bit of a climb (short but steep) but its definitely worth it! After exploring Arashiyama, I visited Kinkaku-ji temple. It was alright, not worth the hype and super crowded. Also not a lot to see here. For lunch I had a vegan ramen at **Ramen Kazu** near Kinkaku-ji. While the place looked interesting and the owner was super lovely, I didn't enjoy the shoyu ramen here very much. For dinner, I visited the highly rated **Vegan Izakaya nijiya VEGAN FARM**, which was definitely worth the hype! I tried the assorted platter here and it was fantastic. I enjoyed the cozy izakaya experience and the ladies who prepared the food were super lovely. The food was a bit pricey and also I was very lucky to get a seat immediately. The izakaya has about 7-8 seats and you may need to wait 20-30 minutes to get a spot. Definitely recommend going early in the evening. **Day 4:** On this day I took a trip to Nara. There are a couple of ways to get from Kyoto to Nara by train and I took the Kintetsu Nara line. This was very convenient because the train station is very close to all the big sites. I enjoyed the hour long train ride with really nice views. At Nara I visited Todai-ji Temple, Kofuku-ji Temple, Kasuga Taisha Temple and Gango-ji Temple. I tried to feed one of the many deer that freely roam the area but found them to be very aggressive. I really enjoyed walking around the city, which was less crowded than the Nara Park area. I had lunch at **Onwa**, a cute little cafe tucked away at the heart of Nara city. I got the vegan delight which was a platter that contained a little bit of every dish they had. **Day 5:** I started off early on a cold morning to visit Fushimi Inari which was a short train ride from my hotel. Based off of advice I read online, I decided to get breakfast before I went up the mountain and this was definitely a good choice. I had breakfast at a cute and cozy cat themed spot called **Cafe Yuyuri.** The place is run by a sweet old woman and had only one breakfast option. I was a bit worried that it would not be vegetarian but my fears were laid to rest when the lady brought out the platter consisting of toast, jam, yogurt, potato salad and some oranges. I definitely recommend getting a bite here before going up to the shrine. Fushimi Inari was definitely one of my favourite spots that I visited throughout my trip. I went all the way up Inari mountain which was a 2-3 hour hike through a very picturesque route. As mentioned by previous reviews, there are lesser people as you go higher so there are some really nice spots to take pictures. After this, I visited some nearby temples including Sennyu-ji and Tofuku-ji. I ended my day by watching the sunset at Kiyomizudera. This was definitely a very busy and crowded spot but the view was beautiful. I had dinner at **Vegan Izakaya Masaka**, Kyoto which was really good. I enjoyed the food and the ambience here. Highly recommend their fried mushrooms, was yum. **Day 6:** I didn't plan much for the day so I visited Nijo Castle in the morning. This was a great experience seeing the castle gardens and even got to see inside the Honmaru-goten Palace which had some beautiful rooms with stunning paintings and screens with motifs. There is a separate ticket to visit the Palace and can only be purchased online. I spent the rest of the day just walking around Gion area, window shopping. For lunch I decided to try **Tadka 1,** a South Indian restaurant run by a Japanese chef. As a South Indian myself, this was a really interesting experience. The whole restaurant had been modelled like a Tamil mess, loved the attention to detail. I had the vegetarian meals and it was really yummy, tasted like home. Definitely recommend. For dinner, I had ramen at **Kyoto Engine Ramen.** It was super busy but I enjoyed the vegan ramen here. **Day 7:** I took the Shinkansen to Tokyo on Christmas Day and arrived around noon. I had lunch at Ts Tantan at Tokyo Station which was so hard to find. I tried their golden sesame Tantanmen and organic soda, which was delicious. After that I went to straight to my hotel which was **L Stay and Grow Minamisuna**, which was really clean and nice but quite far from the city. I spent the evening in Shibuya, which had some really nice blue Christmas lighting and walked around a bit. I had curry and rice for dinner at **Vegan Bistro Jangara** in Shibuya which was okay. **Day 8:** I started the day with a visit to Teamlabs Planets and was absolutely mind-blown. I really enjoyed all the pieces especially Floating in the Falling Universe of Flowers. I grabbed brunch at a nearby **Blue Bottle Coffee** which was alright. After that I travelled to Asakusa and visited Senso-ji temple. I enjoyed walking through Nakamise market and the temple, though it was super crowded. After that I went shopping at Akihabara. As an anime geek, I splurged on some merchandise. I ended the day with dinner at Vegan Eat Tokyo, where I had a yummy lotus root Hamburg. The people were lovely and the food was amazing. **Day 9:** I visited Meiji Jingu shrine in the morning. It was so peaceful and nice to walk through the trees. Quite a contrast to the concrete jungle of Tokyo. I also visited the beautiful Yoyogi Park. Then I visited the Shibuya crossing and had lunch at a nearby **Mos Burger**. Despite all the negative reviews, I wanted to try the place out and now can confirm that it is easily the worst burger I've ever had. After lunch I walked to the Tokyo Metropolitan Government Building and went up to the 45th floor for picturesque views of the Tokyo skyline. In the evening I visited Golden Gai. Though I found it a bit overwhelming and didn't really go to any bars, it was an interesting experience to just walk through the area. **Day 10:** I started off lazy as I had a sleep in and got breakfast at the hotel. I spent the rest of the day shopping and just walking around. I had lunch at **2Foods Ginza**, where I tried the vegan omurice. It was creamy and really tasty. Definitely a spot to have on your list. **Day 11:** I started the day super early on trip to Hakone. I took the 2 day Hakone free pass for 6100 yen, which included a discounted ticket from Shinjuku to Hakone and all the other transportation at Hakone. The train took me until Hakone Yumoto and then there was another train to go up to Gora, where I was staying. After dropping my bags at the hostel I was staying at, I took the cable car to Sounzan. On the way I stopped at Owakudani, which was super crowded but I managed to get beautiful views of Mount Fuji. Then took the ropeway down to Lake Ashi and rode a pirate ship. It was really fun but I had to dash to take the ropeway back because they close at 4PM. At Hakone I stayed at **Emblem Flow** hostel which was walking distance from Gora Station (note that there is an underpass that you need to cross to get here and accessibility might be an issue). That said, this was easily one of my favourite places I stayed. The staff were super lovely and the breakfast was amazing. The highlight was the onsen. I was super nervous and shy about trying an onsen but the experience was fantastic. The hostel had a small onsen which only let 6 people in at a time and was definitely more of an easing into the activity. For dinner, I visited **Box Burger** which had a really great vegan option. **Day 12:** This day was mostly travel. I took the Shinkansen from Tokyo to Osaka. I stayed at **Noum Osaka** which was the most expensive place I stayed on my trip and it was okay. I had dinner at **OKO - Fun Okonomiyaki Bar** which was an interesting experience. The whole restaurant is run by a sweet lady and the food is really good. I highly recommend visiting this place. **Day 13:** I spent the day exploring Osaka. I visited Shin Osaka and Dotonbori area. I had lunch at **Mercy Vegan Factory**. Definitely recommend the vegan cakes here, it was yum. In the evening I visited **Pivot Base** in Dotobori for vegan takoyaki which was delicious as well. As this was New Year's Eve, I decided to hit the bed for an early start on New Year's Day **Day 14:** I started the day super early (4-5 AM) and raced over to Namihaya Ohashi to catch the first sunrise of the year. I got some really nice views of the sun peeking out over the Osaka city skyline. The experience was fun and serene at the same time. It was bit crowded but not a lot of tourists. After that I checked out of my hotel and explored the Osaka Castle area. Most of the shops and restaurants were closed on this day. I got a late lunch at Mercy Vegan Factory which was of the few open spots. Then picked up my bags from the hotel and took the train to the airport. (Was super sad :( to leave) I had a pretty awesome time in Japan, though it was bit packed. I enjoyed all the new experiences like going to an onsen and seeing the first sunrise of the year. I also enjoyed all the little moments like walking through the city, interacting with all the lovely people, taking the train and bus and many many more! I am definitely dreaming about my next trip. If you're on the fence about going on a solo trip to Japan, I definitely recommend it! Also sorry for the long post!"}
{"id": "0029", "text": "Hello, everyone! My husband and I recently returned from a 9-day honeymoon holiday in Japan. I found these trip reports and itineraries helpful in planning our trip, so I wanted to share our own experiences with you fellow travelers! This was our first time in Japan; we flew into and out of Tokyo Narita Airport and stayed in Tokyo and Kyoto, with a day trip to Osaka. Our itinerary: Day 0 | Travel Day We flew 15 hours directly from our hometown to Narita, losing a day in the process. This flight was pretty brutal - if yours is as long as ours, bring plenty of snacks and entertainment. Day 1 | Arrival in Tokyo Since we were staying in Ueno, we prebooked Narita Skyliner Express tickets on Klook. It was super easy to hop on, and there was space for our luggage. We checked into our hotel, freshened up, and then went on a Ueno food and drinks tour. We had a great time trying things we wouldn't have otherwise ordered (think pickled plums, chicken esophagus, and whiskey highballs). Day 2 | Explore Tokyo: Ueno, Yanaka, Nippori, Asakusa, and Akihabara We started off the day with a hotel breakfast then wandered some of Tokyo's quieter neighborhoods for the morning. I love to sew, so I spent quite a bit of time in Nippori's fabric town. After visiting Senso-ji temple and grabbing *Okonomiyaki* in Asakusa, we took a brief nap back at our hotel before exploring Akihabara's electric city. I won't lie - Asakusa and Akihabara were tough due to the crowds. We really enjoyed Yanaka and Nippori though! Day 3 | Explore Tokyo: Shinjuku, Harajuku, and Shibuya We started today with a visit to the Metropolitan Government building to see the great views then bopped over to the Sompo Insurance Museum to see Van Gogh's sunflowers (my favorite painting) before heading to Harajuku where we explored Yoyogi Park, Meiji Jingu, and Takeshita Street before grabbing lunch at Kura Sushi. We have a Kura at home, so it was fun to compare the experience! We then do a kintsuki pottery workshop in Harajuku before heading to Shibuya to experience to famous crosswalk and see the Nintendo store and Pokemon Center. Shibuya was also very crowded but wasn't quite as overwhelming as Akihabara (I think because there's more room to breathe). After a ramen dinner, we headed back to the hotel. Day 4 | Tokyo Disney Sea This was the day we were most intimidated by, but it ended up being one of the most pleasant of our trip! We waited in line for about 30 minutes before opening and experienced all of the rides we wanted to see. We lost the lottery to see the big band performance but otherwise enjoyed exploring, riding rides, and trying all the snacks we wanted. My favorite was the soy sauce popcorn! I also liked looking at the merch - I snagged a couple of Duffy items for our nieces and nephews back home, since they're not available in the States. Day 5 | Tokyo --&gt; Kyoto Today we grabbed our last hotel breakfast and boarded the *shinkansen* for Kyoto. Like the rest of Japanese public transit, it was super easy to link our pre-booked tickets to our IC cards and hop on. We prebooked seats in the oversized baggage area to stash away our suitcases. We grabbed some bento boxes from Ueno station before boarding, and we even saw Mt. Fuji along our way! Once we checked into our room at a traditional ryokan, we temple-hopped and explored Gion. We started at Kiyomizu-dera and worked our way up Ninenzaka to Yasaka, visiting all the little shrines and shops that caught our attention along the way. Crowds were pretty brutal, but that's what we expected for the afternoon. Once we got our fill of temples, we participated in a traditional tea ceremony where we dressed up in traditional kimono and took lots of photos. Then, we bopped to Nishiki Market and grabbed street food for dinner before going back to enjoy the onsen at our ryokan. Tbh, the little taco stand outside of Nishiki Market was one of my favorite meals! Day 6 | Explore Kyoto: Arashiyama We began with a traditional Japanese breakfast at our ryokan before heading over to see the famous bamboo grove and Okochi Sanso Gardens. The bamboo grove was already popping by 9am with wannabe photographers, but the gardens were blissfully empty save us and 1-2 other couples. We then took the Sagano romance train up and a Katsura river boat ride back down. Both were fun and offered great views! After this, we took a taxi to Kinkaku-ji to see the lovely golden pavilion and grabbed a delicious eel dinner nearby before turning in early to our ryokan. Day 7 | Osaka Day Trip We really lucked out on weather, because today was the only day it really rained, and we had planned on being mostly indoors anyways. We took the train to Osaka, visited the Castle museum, grabbed an incredible soba + tempura lunch, then headed to the Aquarium where we were greeted by the incredible whale shark. I think we stood there watching them for at least 45 minutes. We then made our way to Dotonbori to try more street foods and people watch. Today was probably our most crowded/stressful day with all of the commuting across Osaka, but I was glad we got to see what we did! We took the train back to Kyoto, stopping by Fushimi Inari on our way to see the famous red tori gates at night. We happened to stumble across a mama wild boar and her babies, so be careful if you go late to avoid crowds! Day 8 | Kyoto --&gt; Tokyo We enjoyed a tea ceremony at our ryokan before catching the shinkansen back to Tokyo. Once we checked into our final hotel, we headed to Ginza to shop for souvenirs and eat some delicious bougie sushi. For our last night, we balled out and got a room at the Imperial Hotel overlooking the imperial palace and ate wagyu with champagne at one of their many restaurants. It was so delicious and very fun since we had the place to ourselves - there was even a live pianist! Day 9 | Last day in Tokyo! Our flight was at 5pm, so we spent the morning enjoying the nearby palace gardens and grabbed a last lunch at Tsukiji Outer Market before making our way back to Ueno to board the Narita Express again. **Highlights of the Trip:** \\- Our fantastic ryokan in Kyoto \\- Nippori fabric town \\- Harajuku (I liked Takeshita Street way more than I thought I would) \\- Tokyo DisneySea **Lowlights:** \\- Osaka wasn't my cup of tea, but I'm still glad we went! \\- Crowds in tourist areas (not surprising, since we are tourists, after all) \\- General feeling of stress navigating public transit if you're not used to it (we are from a car-centric city and only use public transit when we travel. Thankfully, Japan's metro and bus system is pretty easy to get the hang of, but there were several moments when we got overwhelmed!) The next time we visit Japan, we'd likely stay the entire time in Tokyo and do more day trips to places we wished we had visited, like Nikko, Kamakura, and Hakone. Overall, we had a lovely time, and I wish you all the best in planning your own trips to Japan! It was a great honeymoon, and we can't wait to go back as soon as we can!"}
{"id": "0030", "text": "I recently came back from a 10 day trip, focusing on the Setouchi Triennale (Spring) and Osaka Expo. Sharing some tips and recs! \\--- **SETOUCHI TRIENNALE - TAKAMATSU, INUJIMA, OGIJIMA + MEGIJIMA, NAOSHIMA, SHODOSHIMA** General tips: 1. The Setouchi Triennale passport (I bought this on the Triennale mobile app) is definitely worth buying if youre planning to visit multiple islands. The passport covered majority of what we visited, except for the Chichu Art Museum and the Art House Minamidera on Naoshima, and Georges house on Shodoshima 2. Plan out which days each islands artworks are closed and when you want to visit. The congestion calendar is a neat summary for this. 3. Check the ferry timings beforehand! Some ferries are not frequent (e.g. Takamatsu &gt; Inujima only runs 3 times a day) and you will need to plan how much time you want to spend for each artwork on the island. 4. The 3 day ferry pass (I bought this on the Triennale app as well) is also great as you can skip the queues to buy tickets and go straight to the boarding queue \\- **Takamatsu** We stayed near the port, since we would be taking ferries out each morning for the next couple of days. For our first day, we explored Takamatsu, visiting Yashima and Ritsurin Garden. We took the local kotoden train (you can use your IC Card) to Yashima station and got the shuttle bus up to Yashima observatory. There's a Triennale art installation here and the views and architecture of the observatory is gorgeous. Lunch was at a lovely little restaurant on top of Yashima called . The Sanuki udon was the best we tried on our trip, and we also tried a regional speciality called Anmochi Zoni. This is mochi with red bean inside your miso udon soup. For dinner we headed to Yoridorimidori to try another regional speciality: bone-in chicken. They offer two types of chicken - young, and mature. We tried both, and WOW. The texture and taste of the mature chicken was rich and dense - if you told me the meat was steak or pork ribs I might believe you. I was skeptical about how chicken could possibly be any special and they proved me wrong. \\- **Inujima** * 0812 - 0902 Takamatsu port &gt; Naoshima Miyanoura port * 0920 - 1015 Naoshima Miyanoura port &gt; Inujima port (Not included in ferry pass) * 1547 - 1639 Inujima port &gt; Naoshima Miyanoura port (Not included in ferry pass) * 1700 - 1800 Naoshima Miyanoura port &gt; Takamatsu port Inujima is relatively far from Takamatsu compared to the other islands but it's worth going! Inujima has the Inujima Art museum (which felt similar to Teshima Art museum in that the building is an experiential art installation rather than a museum) and a bunch of Art Houses. Word of warning - If you are taking the same route we did, upon reaching Naoshima you should immediately head straight for the Ticket counter for the Teshima/Inujima ferry+and+Inujima+Ferry+Ticket+Kiosk/@34.4578082,133.9739658,20.61z/data=!4m15!1m8!3m7!1s0x3553f1b6b30575ed:0xae1f083eeb8571c5!2sNaoshima,+Kagawa+District,+Kagawa+761-3110,+Japan!3b1!8m2!3d34.4599166!4d133.9952438!16zL20vMDJoNjg3!3m5!1s0x3553ef001bbe7229:0x238d0623ff19e69c!8m2!3d34.45781!4d133.97425!16s%2Fg%2F11x6rfd977?entry=ttu&amp;g_ep=EgoyMDI1MDUxNS4wIKXMDSoJLDEwMjExNDUzSAFQAw%3D%3D). This is a small little shack about 200m walk from where you disembark from the ferry. When we joined the queue, the staff started turning people behind us away as there were no more tickets available for the time and the next one would be 3 hours later. As far as I know, you can't reserve tickets ahead either, you can only buy on the day and I believe ticket sales start only 30 minutes before departure. We were lucky just to make the cut off, although we had to stand as there weren't any seats left. Half of those on board got off at Teshima, and again - when you reach Inujima, immediately buy your ticket for your trip back. Not sure if it will be different outside of the Triennale period, but there were triennale staff guiding everyone to first collect a queue number, then head to the actual information center to purchase your ferry ticket. \\- **Ogijima + Megijima** * 0800 - 0840 Takamatsu &gt; Ogijima * 1300 - 1320 Ogijima &gt; Megijima * 1520 - 1540 Megijima &gt; Takamatsu We comfortably covered both in a day. There are more food options on Ogijima, so I definitely recommend getting lunch there before heading to Megijima. My favorite spot on Ogijima is the stairs near the Toyotama-hime Shrine, right next to . Gorgeous view of the town, the port and the big blue inland sea. There's quite a few stray cats around the island too but they all seemed disinterested in the tourists. Megijima as a town, felt a lot more dead than Ogijima. Majority of the restaurants/ cafes were closed. I think everyone we saw were either tourists or Triennale staff. We skipped going to the cave because it was a hot day and we wanted to catch the earlier ferry back. My favorite art installation of the day was on Megijima though - don't miss . **-** **Naoshima** * 0812 - 0902 Takamatsu &gt; Naoshima Miyanoura port * 1700 - 1800 Naoshima Miyanoura port &gt; Takamatsu I did this 2 years ago (not during the Triennale) but the rest of my group haven't so we went back! Honestly, Naoshima is a lot more enjoyable when the Triennale is not ongoing. It was so crowded compared to the first time Id visited. The experience of Chichu Art Museum is best appreciated without hordes of chatty tourists rushing about. For maximum flexibility, rent an e-bike. Remember to reserve your e-bikes well ahead of time before your trip, if you are going during the Triennale period. They were all sold out on the day. \\- **Shodoshima** We got the ferry from Takamatsu to Shodoshima Tonosho port. It was really hard for me to find out which timings are the Slowpoke-branded ferries so for anyone else looking - I found this one: https://www.shikokuferry.com/wp/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/yadon.22.2.4.pdf With 2 nights in Shodoshima, we rented a car from Shodoshimaminato Car Rental. It was the only one we found online that would rent to foreigners without a Japanese driving license. Get a International Driving Permit for this. I highly recommend them - the staff were exceedingly helpful and friendly, this was our first time driving in Japan and they made sure we were fully comfortable and even talked us through detailed itinerary recommendations for our 2 days and which roads to avoid (narrow/steep). Grab a Shodoshima map from the information center before you head off. In a separate room there's a booth specific for Setouchi triennale and you can get a map of the art locations. Map of our driving route * Day 1 route (green): Tonosho &gt; Senmaide/Nakayama rice fields &gt; down the peninsula &gt; Olive garden &gt; Tonosho * Day 2 route: Tonosho &gt; Kusakabe port &gt; Marukin soy sauce museum &gt; Twenty four eyes movie village &gt; Sakate port &gt; Fukuda port &gt; Angel Road &gt; Tonosho On Day 2, we skipped Kankakei Gorge since we wanted more time to catch the artworks, most of the indoor artworks close around 4.30pm. \\--- **OSAKA EXPO 2025** We reached Osaka in the afternoon and after checking in to our hotel near Honmachi station, impromptu decided to buy a Night ticket for the Expo! Really glad we did this, we checked off more things off our list than we could have if we had only one day. We were going for breadth rather than depth, so our enjoyment of each pavilion is based more on how engaging we found them overall rather than all the factoids. Turkmenistan is the exception here - ymmv but it was interesting to learn more about such a locked down country. *Favorites* * The grand ring - walk under and on the top, during day and night. It's gorgeous. Except for the flying bugs * Future of Life - snagged an on the day reservation * Earth Mart - around 8pm we asked the staff if we could go in even though we didn't have a reservation and they let us in! * Turkmenistan - walk in * Kuwait - walk in *Worth going if the queues aren't too long* * commons pavilions A, B, C, D - Please check out Commons B for Ukraines booth * France - walk in * Netherlands - this was the only one we got from the lottery * Singapore - walk-in * China - walk in * UAE - walk in * Malaysia - walk in * Spain - walk in *Ehh* * Oman - walk in * Colombia - walk in * Commons E - walk in * Commons F - walk in * Earth at night - walk in Tip: for females - I saw long queues for the standalone toilets with fancy architecture even though there were empty toilets in the buildings a short walk away. Check a map and head to the toilets inside the shop/restaurant buildings, they were always emptier. I'd also recommend that after you hit some of your must see pavilions, just take some time to wander around and relax. There's a lot of performances ongoing throughout the day, don't get stressed out queuing for hours for everything! On our last day, we had some time to kill in Osaka before our evening flight out. It was an enjoyable walk down from Honmachi to Shinsaibashi station, exploring the Amemura area. A cute surprise was the Big Step shopping mall, it has quirky illustrations all over the building and don't miss the B1 and B2 toilets (the male one seems cooler)."}
{"id": "0031", "text": "helloo, i wanted to share my itinerary for my 4 day solo travel in Niigata with no car/self driving. it's such an underrated area and would highly recommend anyone looking to get out of the big cities! Niigata also marks the 30th prefecture ive been to and its one of my top 10 so far. **Day 1 - 28 Apr** * Took the 1047am shinkansen from Tokyo to Niigata using my JR east pass for Niigata and Nagano * I arrived at 1230pm in Niigata, and dropped off my luggage. I had breakfast in my tokyo hotel so i was not hungry for lunch (this was a mistake.. by the time i got hungry most places were having their midday break HAHA) * I didnt get the 1 day city loop bus ticket, but took a single trip directly to hakusan park and shrine. It was so nice and peaceful * From the park, i explored the close-by shotengais and Honchodori. I had a mini stop at Furumachi Kouji Seizousho and had a strawberry koji amazake which was interesting! * Many stores were closed though and it was relatively empty, likely because of goldenweek? * I walked all the way to bandaijima market, and had a donut and a strawberry HAHA i paid 280 for a single strawberry and it was sooooo sweet. * From the market, i walked to the bandai city and had dinner at suzu farm table. food was good! * Window shopped a bit then walked back to my hotel * Ending thoughts: very quiet little city, there were barely any foreign tourists, i was one of the only few. **Day 2 - 29 Apr** * Went to Echigo Yuzawa instead. Took the 833am shinkansen to reach at 913am. Covered by JR east pass. * Grabbed a sando at the station for the train ride. * Once i reached the station, i got some recommendations from the vistors centre. asked them for half day recommendations as i had already booked to go to kiyotsu gorge in the morning. They recommended me to go to yuzawa central park for cherry blossoms and strawberry picking nearby instead of going up yuzawa kogen. * Since it was golden week, there was a shuttle bus round trip echigo yuzawa station to kiyotsu gorge for 5000 (incl a 1000 voucher). the bus was 950 from the station, reaching at 1020. then it leaves the gorge 1145, reaching back at the station at 1215. * It is quite expensive for a shuttle bus, so maybe thats why there was only 1 other person on the bus. * But it was so worth it! the gorge was beautiful and thankfully was not crowded despite it being a public holiday. I even had time for the footbath before going back to the station. * I had lunch at Nakanoya, it was too cold for me so i got a hot soba instead of their famous cold soba. Tempura was good too. Even though i was solo, i had to wait for a while but they actually had many empty insides. * From the station, i walked to ichigo no mura for strawberry picking. it was 350 for the entrance, and i picked about 900 worth of strawberries (about 13 big ones). so sweet and so good. i love the strawberries here. * Walked to the yuzawa central park and got so lucky with the cherry blossoms! a few people were having picnics but the vibes were insane. * Walked back to the station and had a matcha koji latte at the ponshukan for a short break. * Walked around the shopping streets near the station and it was relatively quiet and empty. * Did some shopping at the station to use my voucher from the shuttle bus. Bought the walnut miso sasadango which was the echigo-yuzawa station speciality and i regret not buying more. * took the train back to niigata (also covered by JR pass, i just hopped on the train without reservation) and had tare katsu for dinner at the station. * Ending thoughts: would come back for the skiing! also would love to come for fuji rock, but tickets would probably be difficult for foreigners (i tried to get tickets for Japan Jam, even same day tickets but i wasnt able too) **Day 3 - 30 Apr** * 755am Jetfoil to Sado Island - Ryotsu Port. I took the earliest bus from the station to the port at about 710am. Was very easy to collect tickets and make payment. * 9am reached Sado Island. Went to the visitor centre again, the girl there was so helpful with the bus timing and helping with planning my route. buses are not frequent and i was on a tight schedule (could not miss any!!), so i decided to just do the taraibun and either gold park or toki park. she also recommended me to buy the bus pass for 1500 which was so convenient because the buses are cash only * 10am to 1046am - Bus from Ryotsu port to Sawata Bus Station * 1120am to 1228pm - Bus from Sawata Bus Station to Yajima. * When i reached Yajima bus stop, i actually was a bit worried because it was so quiet. luckily there were some people when i reached the taraibun area. However, theyre on lunch break from 12-1pm so i had to wait for a while but i just walked around and took some pictures. it was also a very nice sunny day. * My tub boat ride was 800 and it was about 10mins. * I had an onigiri watching other ppl go on their tub boats before catching my next bus. I decided to go to toki park instead because it seemed like the gold park was all in japanese so i decided to skip it. * 140pm to 234pm - Bus from Yajima to Mano Shimmachi * 248pm to 314pm - Bus from Mano Shimmachi to Toki Park * quite a small place but was interesting to learn the story. unfortunately i was only able to see 2 tokis. the park had some toki statues that were pretty lifelike in a cordoned off area and i saw some elderly ladies taking pictures of them because they thought it was real, then wondered why they werent moving HAHA. * 350pm to 416pm - Bus from Uchimaki to Ryotsu Port (i had to walk abt 10mins from the park on a road to get to this bus stop) * Had a burger at Masani Coffee with sado island black tea * 555pm jetfoil back to niigata port. * Had sado beef dinner at yaki NIQ &gt; meat was not that good but might just be the cut. they only had shoulder loin left when i arrived at about 745. * Ending thoughts: sado island is beautiful and i would love to revisit but would not do it on public transport again. **Day 4 - 1 May** * Niigata to Yahiko (covered by JR pass). I arrived at about 1030. * Picked up a edamame pandayaki, so interesting, i loved the texture. * Walked to Yahiko shrine * Took a free shuttle bus from the shrine to the base of the ropeway * Had a koshihikari ice cream at the top. * Had a kani wappa meshi lunch at Yamaboshi. quite expensive but was nice to try! * Had another footbath near the park while waiting for the train. they do not have trains out between 1 to 3 so there were other people waiting around. * Took the train to Tsubamesanjo, i wanted to go to the industrial museum but it was too late, so i went to the regional industries promotion center instead and got some cutlery. it was all so pretty. * Hopped on the train back to niigata (again covered by JR pass) * Picked up an onigiri at Nigiri Mai. made with koshihikari rice, was so fresh and good. * Walked to sora no hiroba for the sunset views! i stayed for a while. * Dinner at Tonkatsu Masachan, really good too. **Day 5 - 2 May** * back to tokyo (covered by JR pass) Overall i really did enjoy Niigata and wished i was able to stay longer. I had cut short my trip because of transport issues (other interesting places were difficult to get to on public transport) and to maximise the JR pass. Would definitely go back with a car/driver! People were generally really nice (i got nihongo jouzu-ed so many times) and i wish i spoke more japanese to be able to converse more with people. let me know if anyone has any questions, would be happy to help!"}
{"id": "0032", "text": "Hello, r/JapanTravel! I recently returned from a 17 day trip to Japan, my first time visiting. Suffice to say, it lived up to my expectations. The public transportation, food, and hospitality may have spoiled me for future travel elsewhere. My trip window (March 29th to April 14th) was perfect timing to see the sakura bloom all the way through. **Day 1: Arrival at Haneda**** I arrived at a cold and rainy Tokyo Haneda airport at 4 pm. Customs was simple enough and I only had a carry on and a backpack, so no need to wait for baggage. My AT&amp;T international phone plan kicked in and worked with no issues. I prebooked a private transport via Get Your Guide. The van dropped me off right at my first hotel, **Remm Akihabara.** I was really pleased with the room, which had a great view of the surrounding city, and a massage chair! I went out to find dinner with what little energy I had left. On my first walk out of the hotel I stumble on a JDM car meet in front of all the lit up buildings in Akiba and had my first \"wow I'm really here!\" moment. I go to **Sushiro** for my first meal , as I am a sucker for belt sushi. It was freaking packed. the machine said it would be a 55 minute wait, but as I was solo, my number was actually called right away. I sat down and had sushi to my hearts content. the total came to just over $10 US. **Day 2 Akihabara and Ueno** I am a huge fan of the Steins;Gate anime and games and have always wanted to visit Akiba so I set out to find real life locations from the show. As it was Sunday, they closed down the main street and it became a pedestrian zone, which was pretty cool. I also found a pop up shop for the 15th anniversary of Steins;Gate! The cherry blossoms were in full bloom so I walked to Ueno park and Nezu Shrine for viewing. For dinner, I scheduled an Ueno bar hopping tour with Best Tours Japan. This was one of my highlights of the entire trip. We hit up four locations, including two standing bars, yakiniku, and a ramen shop. We were served a huge variety of local food and drinks and the tour guide Aki was extremely funny and informative. The ramen at our final stop which I believe was named **Kaguraya** was the best ramen I have ever had. It was a luxurious creamy chicken ramen that was just to die for. **Day 3 Shinjuku Gyoen, Asakusa** The train station is basically right underneath my hotel, so I just walk downstairs and take a 15 minute train ride to Shinjuku Gyoen for more Sakura viewing. It was my first train ride and I couldn't believe how easy it was. I slept in though and waited until after the morning rush, so I'm sure that helped. It was cold and rainy but I still enjoyed the park. Had a late tempura lunch at **Tendon Tenya** which was total comfort food. I go by the Nier/Square Enix cafe gift shop which happened to be their final day before closing. At night I went to Asakusa for a Senso-ji and Sumida Park walk using the Tsukuba Express train. Seeing the Sakura lit up with the Skytree behind was really magical. **Day 4 Tokyo to Kanazawa** Shinkansen to Kanazawa. Really picturesque ride! Had an early dinner at **Shogun Burger** at the station. I read great reviews of their Wagyu burgers but it was honestly pretty terrible. Check in at **Hotel Nikko Kanazawa.** Really nice place for just over $100 a night. I was invited up for a complimentary welcome cocktail at their 25th floor Skybar, which had an unreal view of the city. Sitting by the window looking out over the city lights sipping my cocktail, I couldn't help but feel a little like James Bond. Another one of my highlights of the trip. **Day 5 Kanazawa** Started the day off walking through Omicho Market, and the Samurai District. The highlight of the day is **Kenrokuen Garden.** Without a doubt the most sprawling and beautiful garden of the trip. Entry was free for the day due to the sakura bloom and there was plenty of good food and festivities taking place. Had some great chicken karaage skewers while looking over the next stop, **Kanazawa Castle.** I spent quite a while exploring the castle grounds and found a spot under a large grove of sakura to rest. I was feeling really exhausted after 5 days of exploring and decided to cut the day short and go back to the hotel. I love Indian food so decided to try an Indian place with good reviews near the hotel, but it was unfortunatey terrible. **Day 6 Shirakawa-Go, Takayama** Booked a Limon bus via GetYourGuide to Shirakawa-Go which was excellent. Surprisingly there were only two other people on the bus. We arrived at Shirakawa-Go which was still covered in snow. The town was picturesque but unfortunately just overrun with people. It felt like a theme park. Instagrammers were blocking the streets setting up tripods in the middle of the road. Kids were running all over peoples private property. Drones were flying through the air. I felt bad just being there. I actually got back on the bus early after grabbing a hida beef bun. Our next stop was Takayama where I had a two night stay booked. Takayama was freezing! I checked in to **Hida Takayama Ouan.** The hotel was pretty ok. Shoes come off at the door. Hot spring on the roof. Free noodles at night. Finding dinner was tricky. Place after place had closed signs out saying they were full. Reservations only was the norm. after a bit I stumbled on **Hida Kitchen.** I poked my head in and they asked if I had a reservation. I said no but they said thats ok! and found me a spot. The staff was so attentive and welcoming. I was freezing cold and being brought a hot towel and an Asahi was just heaven. I ended up getting a wonderful Hida steak that was melt in your mouth good. **Day 7 Takayama** The day starts off with a surprisingly varied hotel breakfast featuring local Takayama dishes. Not bad! Walked through the old town morning markets, trying some hida beef nigiri and had great coffee at **Falo Cofee Brewers.** The Higashiyama walking course was up next, full of interesting shrines and a huge graveyard in the forest which was kind of eerie. The city center was packed with tourists, so it was nice to hit this trail with barely anyone else around. I hopped on a city bus from the terminal to **Hida Folk Village** next. It was nice seeing a small version of Shirakawa-Go with much fewer tourists. Unfortunately the town didn't really look like the pictures as all the grass and trees around were brown and dead looking. It almost felt like a wild west town. For dinner, I had my heart set on **Naniwa Sushi** near my hotel after reading great reviews here. I got there early and waited for them to open but the opening time came and went.. after a while of waiting they finally put out a sign that they were full for the night... So I end up at... **Hida Kitchen!!** They welcome me warmly and I have a great dinner once again. Loved these guys! **Day 8 Nagoya** Rode a limited train to Nagoya from Takayama station with spectacular views of the countryside. Just lovely! Arriving at Nagoya Station there is a Formula 1 pop up event with a Red Bull racing car on display. Started to get excited for the race! Check in at **Super Hotel Nagoya Station.** I was bracing for this hotel to be the worst of my trip, as the only room left when I booked was a smoking room, and it looked pretty small, but it ened up being a really nice stay. The girl at reception seemed excited to practice her english with me. She took out big cue cards and gave a whole presentation of the layout of the hotel, which was super cute. I had to do a double take when she pointed out the open bar. All the alcohol bottles were out and she said guests were free to make whatever kind of drink they want between a certain time (!) Luckily she found me a non smoking room too. I spent the rest of the day doing laundry at the hotel, making cocktails, and exploring the surrounding area. There was tons of shopping and I found a great tempura spot. **Day 9 Formula 1 at Suzuka Circuit** I pre-booked an express bus through the Suzuka Circuit site that picked up at Nagoya Station. Even though I had an e-ticket, I had to join a large queue to exchange the e-ticket for a paper ticket and then queue up again to exchange the paper ticket fo rthe bus ride. The bus was quite comfortable but ended up taking nearly three hours to reach the track. We arrived an hour past the original estimated arrival time and missed the pre-race festivities. Oh man the queues for food were INSANE. I got in line for karaage skewers and after waiting forever, the person in front of me got the final order and the booth put out a sold out sign. I started hearing cars on the track and had to run to my seat still hungry. Luckily I had a few 7/11 snacks in my bag. I had a great seat and hearing the cars roaring around the corner for the first time was exhilarating. A fan sitting next to me snuck in a bottle of sake and poured me a large cup! Princess Akiko was there to hand out trophies at the end. After the race we boarded the buses once again and here is where things really unraveled. After boarding we were held in the parking lot for 2 hours without moving. After the buses were let out we sat in bumper to bumper traffic moving literally inch by inch for 2 more hours. It took almost 4.5 hours in total to get back to Nagoya. I was so tired when I got back and it was so late I ended up just having a 7/11 dinner in my hotel room. I enjoyed the race but I would not recommend it as it is too far out of the way. A 12 hour day for 90 minutes of racing just was not worth it. **Day 10 Kyoto/Gion** Grabbed a shinkansen to Kyoto Station which was super easy. I checked in at the **Dormy Inn Premium.** The hotel looked brand new and was nice and clean. Just a couple minutes from the station. Had coffee at **Tsumugi Cafe** and explored **Higashi Hongan-ji Temple** which was surprsingly not busy at all. That night I explored the **Gion** district which was totally wild. There were a ton of people, but the sakura was in full bloom and seeing the trees lit up next to the river at night was a sight to behold. I stopped at several standing bars and enjoyed drinks and snacks and spent the rest of the night just taking in the sights. Definitely a highlight of the trip and one of the coolest places I have ever been. **Day 11 Kyoto/Arashiyama** The next morning I had a prebooked tour through Magical Trip for the **Arashiyama** area that is supposed to specifically avoid the crowds. Our guide took us through several private gardens and quiet temples adjacent to the bamboo forest area, which were just wonderful. The tour included a traditional lunch in serene restaurant surrounded by gardens and sakura. Strong winds started around this time and the sakura petals started falling outside the windows. This really felt like Japan from the movies, maybe my favorite moment of the trip. **Day 12 Kyoto/Fushimi Inari** I booked another tour through Magical Trip for **Fushimi Inari** where that took us hiking up an alternate route to avoid the crowds. On the way up we went through a really cool bamboo forest with literally no other tourists around. I had planned to go to Kiyomizudera after, but It was a long day of hiking. i was exhausted and ended up resting in the hotel room for the rest of the day. Dinner was **Katsukura** at Kyoto Station, which was awesome. **Day 13 Shibuya** Pre-booked a shinkansen so I could get a seat on the Mt Fuji side, but it was total cloud cover that day. Zero visibility. Checked in to **Shibuya Tokyu Excel** after having a hell of a time finding the place. I had a 24th floor room with a view of Shibuya crossing. Pretty cool. There was a Jojos Bizarre Adventure tie-in happening at the hotel and there was Jojo stuff all over the place. I hit the town and honestly the night was kind of a blur. Stopped at several random bars and drank and ate tons. The final stop was at a Karaoke bar which I wasnt really planning, but I ended up singing my heart out to classic Green Day lol. I was really glad I brought my umbrella as it started pouring halfway through the evening. **Day 14 Harajuku/Shinjuku** Seemingly walked all over town this day. Started down **Cat St** which seemed oddly deserted and smelled like sewage the whole way through. **Omotesando, and Harajuku** were next. Takeshita St was busy but still kind of fun. One of my most anticipated tours I booked of the trip was a 6 mini bowl Ramen tour by **5am Ramen.** I met the guide in Shinjuku and it was just me and a couple from India. First up was classic ramen joint where we sampled Tokyo style and Spicy ramen. Next was Tsukemen that was outstanding. We traveled to Akasaka for the last stop at **MENDOKORO TOMO Premium** and had italian inspired dishes including creamy chicken and pesto ramen. **Day 15 Meiji Jingu** Big walking day. Hotel breakfast was on the 25th floor with a spectacular view of the city. Hit **Yoyogi Park**, which was full of revelers enjoying the weekend. **Meiji Jingu Garden** was next, which was a peaceful spot among all the crowds. Had lunch at **Tendon Tenya** again. Yum Finished the night at **Lost Bar** in Shibuya whose somewhat secret entrance is accessed by pushing a vending machine to the side. The staff was fun and made awesome cocktails. **Day 16 Yokohama/Daikoku** As I am a car guy, on Sunday I had a tour guide booked to go to cars and coffee at Daikoku in Yokohama. I was so excited for this trip but unfortunately a total downpour ruined the day. It was a total washout. We went to the **Nissan Omori Factory** instead which only had a few cars but were still cool. We also stopped at **Autobacs**, which is like an Autozone except much cooler. There was a ton of cool JDM merch and parts and even a library. I was like a kid in a candy store. **Day 17 Depart from Haneda** After checking out I decided to stop at the hotel's coffee shop which I wasn't aware had a bar seating area right over Shibuya crossing. I had coffee and a special pizza from their Jojo's Bizarre Adventure menu. Today was my big shopping day before heading home. Hit up the **Mega Don Quijote Flagship** in Shibuya for snacks and gifts. **Uniqlo, Tower Records, Muji,** etc. Hung out at **Miyashita park** for a bit and then boarded the Airport Limousine Bus right from my hotel to the airport. Pretty convenient! **Final Thoughts** Overall I had an amazing time. I was extremely fortunate to hit the sakura at maximum bloom at almost every stop. Halfway through, I was already planning my next visit! I will definitely have to visit Kyoto again and will go to Hiroshima, Osaka, and Hakone next time. My highlights of the trip were Arashiyama, Gion, Akiba, and Ueno. I was slightly underwhelmed by Shirakawa-go, Takayama, and Suzuka. Shibuya was ultimately too busy for my tastes. I grew very weary of navigating the throngs of people. Upon returning home I find myself missing the public transport and conbini the most! I luckily was able to find a store near me that stocks Asahi Super Dry though! Thanks to everyone on this sub and JapanTravelTips for helping me plan everything. I can't wait to go back!"}
{"id": "0033", "text": "Its almost two weeks since I came back from a trip with my family, and Im still in awe and want to go back to Japan as soon as possible. Itll be a long time until I can afford to go again, so for now, I figured I could share what we did and a couple of insights for people planning to visit soon. Hope its helpful to someone! **Travel (Sat 12.)** Notes: - We traveled with Qatar airways economy, the food was nice - I brought my Switch for the plane, but barely used it **Day 1 - Tokyo (Sun 13.)** Hotel - Vessel inn Ueno Iriya Ekimae Notes: - We arrived in the evening and immigration only took about an hour despite us not having filled in the forms in advance - Our 78.5cm by 51cm by 29.5cm suitcases fit on the skyliner overhead racks, as well as on all the Shinkansen racks later in the trip. You can fit pretty big suitcases, so the main issue is weight **Day 2 - Tokyo &gt; Nagano (Mon 14.)** Activities: - Cherry blossoms at Matsumoto castle Food: - Soba Masamihonpo Hotel - Tokyu Rei Hotel Nagano Notes: - Despite being a little past full bloom, there were plenty of beautiful sakura blossoms near Matsumoto Castle as well as all over Nagano - The Nagano days were the only ones where I needed a jacket, the rest of the trip I only wore light sweaters **Day 3 - Nagano (Tue 15.)** Activities: - Jigokudani Monkey Park Hotel - Tokyu Rei Hotel Nagano Notes: - The monkey park was awesome, although the google maps times for the bus there must be wrong as we waited more than 40 minutes past the expected time on the way to the park and 1 hour 30 minutes on the way back **Day 4 - Nagano &gt; Kanazawa (Wed 16.)** Activities: - Tea House, Morihachi - Kenrokuen garden Food: - Morimori Sushi Hotel - the square hotel KANAZAWA Notes: - Morimori sushi was my favorite restaurant of the entire trip! **Day 5 - Kanazawa &gt; Osaka (Thu 17.)** Activities: - Glnta (+ Shinsaibashi) - Dotombori Food: - Sunny Day Dumpling - Kotetsu (izakaya) Hotel - Sotetsu Fresa inn Kitahama Notes: - We didnt have time to make the rings ourselves, but getting custom made rings at Glnta was still a great experience **Day 6 - Universal Studios Japan (Fri 18.)** Activities: - The Flying Dinosaur - Harry Potter And The Forbidden Journey - Flight of the Hippogriff - Jurassic Park - The Ride - Despicable Me: Minion Mayhem - Space Fantasy - The Ride - Doraemon 4-D Art Adventure: Nobitas Art World Tales - Mario Kart: Koopas Challenge - Yoshis Adventure - Mine Cart Madness Food: - Three Broomsticks - Amity Landing Restaurant Hotel - Sotetsu Fresa inn Kitahama Notes: - My favorite rides were Jurrasic Park: The Ride, Space Fantasy: The Ride and Mine Cart Madness - The food at Three Broomsticks was delicious **Day 7 - Osaka &gt; Hiroshima (Sat 19.)** Activities: - Atomic bomb dome - Peace memorial park - Peace memorial museum Food: - Nagataya (Okonomiyaki) Hotel - Hotel Suite Hiroshima Hakushima Notes: - We didnt feel like doing other activities after Peace Memorial and spent the rest of the day doing laundry **Day 8 - Hiroshima &gt; Miyajima (Sun 20.)** Activities: - Daishoin temple + Henjo Kutsu Cave - Itsukushima shrine Food: - Coffee &amp; Bakery Shima - Miyajima Coffee - Tempura Momiji - Kaiseki dinner Ryokan - Miyajima Seaside Hotel Notes: - First rainy day, we had to change our original Mount Misen plans, but the fog gave the island a cool mystical vibe - Tempura Momiji was awesome - The hotel collected our luggage right outside the ferry terminal, so we could start exploring right away **Day 9 - Miyajima &gt; Kyoto (Mon 21.)** Activities: - Nishiki Market - Koda-ji evening illuminations Food: - Japanese set breakfast - Micasadeco &amp; cafe (Pancakes) - Itoh Dining (Wagyu, Kobe) Hotel - Travelodge Kyoto Shijo Kawaramachi Notes: - The area around Koda-ji was very calm and had few visitors in the evening - Itoh Dining was awesome, every dish in the set menu was delicious **Day 10 - Kyoto (Tue 22.)** Activities: - Gion Kbu Kaburenj, Miyako Odori 14:30-16:00 Food: - Ichiran Hotel - Travelodge Kyoto Shijo Kawaramachi Notes: - We didnt do much on this day, we all figured some rest would be nice - I loved watching the Miyako Odori, the audio guide was very helpful - Id gotten addicted to melon soda by this point and went on a long search for it in the evening, finally settling for a very overpriced one at a caf **Day 11 - Kyoto &gt; Hakone (Wed 23.)** Activities: - Hakone open air museum Ryokan - Tonosawa Ichinoyu Honkan Food: - Kaiseki Dinner Notes: - Our second rainy day, and once again we didnt mind much as it created a cool ambiance - Soaking in the onsen attached to our room in the evening was heavenly - I liked the hotel a lot despite it being a bit old (we were also given a lot of melon soda at dinner, which I was very happy with) **Day 12 - Hakone &gt; Tokyo (Thu 24.)** Activities: - Teamlabs borderless 16:00 Hotel - Hearton Hotel Higashi-Shinagawa Food: - Japanese set breakfast - Mediterranean Kitchen Rey - Excelsior Caff - T.Y. Harbor Notes: - We got a good view of Tokyo Tower just walking in the streets around the building Teamlabs borderless is located in **Day 13 - Tokyo (Fri 25.)** Activities: - Shibuya Sky, 14:40 - Nintendo Tokyo - Muji - Don Quixote - Hands - Loft - Pop Mart Food: - Shake Shack Shibuya - Cafe &amp; Bar Scramble - Outback Steakhouse Shibuya Hotel - Hearton Hotel Higashi-Shinagawa Notes: - This was our main shopping day, although we had several stops on other days whenever we passed something that looked interesting **Day 14 - Tokyo (Sat 26.)** Activities: - Imperial Palace - Manekineko shop - Airport shops Food: - Kotobuki, Taito Notes: - The couple running the Manekineko shop were super friendly **Travel (Sun 27.)** Souvenirs I brought home: - At least one keychain from every city we visited - Ceramic bowls - Glnta ring - Chopsticks with my catss names engraved - 2 maneki nekos (1 a gift) - Nanoblock bonsai (gift) - Shiroi Koibito - Pop mart figures (gifts) - Shampoo - Nail clippers"}
{"id": "0034", "text": "Hello Community, A while back, I shared a list of things I *hoped* to do in Japan. Im a 35M based in Australia, and I recently returned from an unforgettable solo tripand I can honestly say, Japan exceeded all expectations. https://www.reddit.com/r/JapanTravel/comments/1jj7rbx/japan\\_10\\_day\\_trip\\_please\\_provide\\_recommendations/?utm\\_source=share&amp;utm\\_medium=web3x&amp;utm\\_name=web3xcss&amp;utm\\_term=1&amp;utm\\_content=share\\_button No complaints, just pure gratitude. In this post, Im compiling everything I *actually* did on the trip (with a few changes from my original plan). Whether you're planning your first visit or dreaming of going back like I already am, I hope this gives you a good idea. # Day 1 April 16: Arrival in Osaka Arrived in Osaka around 3 PM local time. Took the Nankai Line to Namba and checked into my hotel near Dotonbori. Tried **okonomiyaki** at Okonomiyaki Sanpei and **takoyaki** from Wanaka Sennichimae. Spent the evening exploring Dotonbori saw the iconic **Glico sign** and strolled along the riverfront. # Day 2 April 17: Himeji Castle &amp; Shopping in Osaka Started early and headed to Himeji. The castle was stunning, especially with the cherry blossoms in full bloom. Explored all the floors and enjoyed panoramic views of the city from the top. Visited the nearby **Koko-en Garden** the flower beds, koi ponds, and mini waterfalls made it totally worth it. Had lunch at a ramen spot near Himeji Station. Returned to Osaka by evening and went shopping. * Bought a Japanese kitchen knife from **Tower Knives Osaka** * Picked up Japanese denim from **Studio D'Artisan** * Bought Japan-exclusive badminton shoes and a few **Imabari towels** near the hotel. Called it a day after that. # Day 3 April 18: Hiroshima Day Trip Caught the 7 AM Shinkansen to Hiroshima and arrived around 9:30 AM. Spent the morning at the **Peace Memorial Museum**, **A-Bomb Dome**, and **Peace Park**. The afternoon was reserved for Miyajima, but unfortunately, ferries were operating only one-way due to tide conditions. In hindsight, I shouldve done Miyajima first. Tried Hiroshima-style ramen and waited in line at **Okonomimura** to try the famous **Hiroshima okonomiyaki** totally worth it. Returned to Osaka by 4 PM. In the evening, visited **Umeda Sky Building** for night views of the city, shopped for sunglasses at **JINS**, and had ramen for dinner. # Day 4 April 19: Osaka Local Sights Forwarded my luggage to Kyoto and started the day around 9 AM. Visited **Osaka Castle** skipped the interior but loved the view of the moat. Next stop: **Osaka Aquarium** and **Tempozan Ferris Wheel**. Had lunch at **Kuma Caf** nearby. Returned to the hotel around evening to rest. In the evening/early night, explored **Amerikamura** and **Nipponbashi Denden Town** (like a mini Akihabara). Saw some cool stores almost bought a Naruto-themed bomber jacket! Had Korean BBQ for dinner and wrapped up the night with another round of okonomiyaki and takoyaki. # Day 5 April 20: Kyoto Fushimi Inari, Kiyomizu-dera, Samurai &amp; Ninja Museum Took an early train to Kyoto, arriving at **Fushimi Inari** around 7:30 AM. Did the full hike the serene torii paths were unforgettable. Next, visited **Kiyomizu-dera**. It was crowded, but I managed to see some inner sanctums. Stopped by **Nishiki Market** for lunch: sushi, tempura, bubble tea, chocolate-dipped strawberries, and sweet rice balls. Went shopping bought: * A custom name stamp from **Tamaru Imbou** * Japanese tea cups * A fridge magnet * Custom-made perfume from **My Only Fragrance** Ended the day at the **Samurai &amp; Ninja Museum**. Dressed up in samurai gear, learned a few sword moves a fun and immersive experience. # Day 6 April 21: Kyoto Arashiyama, Philosophers Path, Gion Started at 7 AM and headed to **Arashiyama Bamboo Grove** quiet and peaceful. Walked all the way to **Adashino Nenbutsu-ji**, enjoying traditional Japanese houses along the route. Visited **Togetsukyo Bridge** before taking a bus to **Philosophers Path**. Explored several nearby shrines too. In the evening, freshened up and headed to **Gion** for dinner at **Izakaya Gion Yuki**. # Day 7 April 22: Tokyo Asakusa Arrived in Tokyo in the afternoon and went to **Asakusa**. Visited **Senso-ji Temple**, tried the fortune-telling paper, and bought an amulet. Explored **Nakamise Street** and had lunch nearby. Went shopping at **Uniqlo Asakusa**, then visited **Don Quijote** (super crowded). Picked up: * Chopsticks * Matcha KitKats Also got Kimono-themed shoes from Tokyo Kimono shoes (sizing was tricky but worth it for the souvenir) Returned to Shinjuku, where I was staying, and had dinner at a local izakaya. # Day 8 April 23: Tokyo Akihabara &amp; Roppongi Hills Started late due to rainy weather. Spent the day shopping in **Akihabara**: * **Radio Kaikan** * **Yodobashi Camera** * **BIC Camera** Bought toy cars, Pokmon plushies, and a Japan-exclusive **Seiko watch**. In the evening, visited **Teamlab Borderless** a surreal experience. Had dinner nearby in **Roppongi Hills**. # Day 9 April 24: Tokyo Shinjuku, Shibuya, Meiji Shrine * Visited **Meiji Jingu Shrine** * Spent time in **Shinjuku Gyoen National Garden** * Headed to **Shibuya** for the **Scramble Crossing** and **Hachiko Statue** * Best views of the crossing from **7F of Magnet by Shibuya 109** Ended the day exploring **Kabukicho** Godzilla Head, neon lights, and buzzing nightlife. # Day 10 April 25: Mt. Fuji &amp; Lake Kawaguchiko Day Trip Booked a **Klook** day tour to Mt. Fuji. Weather was perfect made it a fantastic (though short) trip. Visited: * **Oshino Hakkai** * **Oishi Park** * **Arakurayama Sengen Park** * **Fujiyoshida Street** Captured some breathtaking views of Mt. Fuji. # Day 11 April 26: Departure Packed up and began the journey back home. Things that helped me survive this intense trip with 1820k steps daily (max 27k): * **Good shoes** * **Pocari Sweat** * **Snacks &amp; sandwiches** * **Regular meals** * **Magnesium glycinate supplements** * **Foot patches from Suggi**"}
{"id": "0035", "text": "Took a while, but finally I'm jotting down my trip report from my trip to Japan. This was my second trip to Japan and just like my last trip, I went with the same friend. For convenience, I'll be referring to them as TC (travel companion). I also met up with my same friend who lives in Japan, who I'll refer to as FIJ. I'm going to post the video game related stuff on r/gamecollecting , https://www.reddit.com/r/gamecollecting/comments/1kezpoc/japan\\_haul/ TL;DR 1. My trip was: 1. Fly into Tokyo 2. Take the Shinkansen to Kyoto 3. Train to Osaka 4. Shinkansen for a quick stop in Nagoya 5. Shinkansen to Tokyo 6. Back home 2. Crowds were pretty bad in Kyoto at the touristy shrines. Otherwise they weren't too bad. 3. Pay the slight premium for reserved seats on the Shinkansen unless you like standing for an hour or two. 4. Use Collabo Cafe in advance to look for pop-up cafes. Start looking a few months before your trip. 5. You don't have to hunt for Sakura during the season, they will find you. 6. Use Airporter for Narita and TA-Q-BIN for luggage service. It's really worth it! Airporter required sending our luggage out to Narita with less time than TA-Q-Bin so that was nice. **Day 0 -** March 28th We got to the airport early, which wasn't really necessary as the plane left a little late. We flew ANA and what was pretty neat this time was that leaving they organized boarding groups into separate lines before boarding. This led to a pretty smooth boarding experience and us leaving on time. They also had a pretty cute Pokemon themed take off and landing video which a nice surprise. The flight itself was alright. We left on one of the older planes, so the video screen wasn't the best and I had trouble with my remote and screen. Otherwise it was fine. Also nice was that I got the Oriental themed vegetarian meal which was tasty enough. At the very least, I didn't have trouble eating anything with my odd dietary restrictions! Only problem was they didn't give ice cream for desert :(. **Day 1** \\- March 29th We arrived at Haneda at 9m, but I was surprised at how busy it was! Luckily, for me, my TC is hearing impaired and got us through immigration extremely quickly. Though we did have to wait a while for our bags. After getting our bags, we went to our hotel which was at the Airport, The Park Hotel at Haneda. It was a pretty nice hotel and nice and convenient for a late night flight! Plus, as we had enough energy we figured we'd exchange our currency which was ended up being a good idea. The airport itself was pretty dead, so it took all of a few seconds to do so. After a late night currency exchange, I texted my FIJ to let him know we were going to try to wake up at 10 to check out on time as he wanted to meet us to pick up some things i brought for him. So with that we headed to bed. **Day 2 -** March 30th Despite going to bed late, we woke up early! So even though we were ready to leave the hotel at 9AM, we had to wait for my FIJ who is a late sleeper... To kill time we got our breakfast and watched some TV. I did get to see an episode of the current Super Sentai so that was nice. But eventually my FIJ did arrive and we headed to Kyoto. We caught the train at Shingawa and figured we'd save some money with non-reserved seats. Having done the JR Pass previously, we didn't have the experience of actually buying tickets from last time. So we ended up standing for a good part of the trip. My TC sat down at Shin-Yokohama, but I was standing until Nagoya which wasn't much fun. Still, the Shinkansen got us safely to Kyoto and our hotel, Hotel New Hankyu Kyoto. It was an older hotel, but still alright. It had a pretty nice lobby and overall was clean. Plus the staff was lovely. I might look for a newer hotel next time because I'm a snob, but I'd probably stay again. Anyway, it was mid-afternoon when we got there, so we did some shopping at the Pokemon Center, Nintendo Store, and Surugaya. In between we had dinner at Sukiya. After not having a proper meal since the flight, it was incredible. Though I did learn that Chinese pepper in Google translate means Szechuan. Im one of those folks who find it tastes salty, so I got a nice surprise every few bites. After hitting Surugaya though, we decided instead of going to more shops to call it after that and head to the hotel so my friend could open her Pokemon cards and we could rest before Fushimi Inari. **Day 3 -** March 31 We woke up early again this day . Possibly from jet lag, allergies stuffing me up, or a minor plane illness stuffing me up. Nevertheless we headed to Fushimi Inari and got there shortly after 8. It was already decently crowded, but manageable there. As Ive read, it does really get less crowded as you go up. Still, it was definitely busier than when I went 2 years ago and the other tourists were a bit annoying to manage. Mainly that everyone wants to stop to pose in the middle of the gates. Still, I had a good time on the repeat visit! From Fushimi Inari we headed to the Nintendo Museum, and it was amazing. From the second we got in and saw the Gameboy storage lockers I was hooked! From there we headed to Hatena cafe and built our own burgers. The menu app was pretty neat, but the food was just ok. Nothing to write home about other than the melon soda. The museum itself was incredible. The second floor has exhibits for everything Nintendo. From before the Famicom to now! It was neat seeing all that Nintendo history in one place including a few prototypes of hardware! I was a little disappointed the Pop-tart (Animal Crossing) 3DS and SpongeBob GBA werent represented, but Ill live. Everything else they had made up for those omissions. I would have liked to take pictures, but I guess they want you to stay focused on the exhibits. The first floor (which you go to after) was filled with interactive exhibits. We did the Zapper game first which I found fun. I did not get the golden zapper though. After that we did the giant N64 Controller. After watching other try and fail to beat Bowser my TC and I did to find out you keep playing! There are 3 challenges in total and we finished 2/3. Following that we hit up the Ultrahand game and I could not figure that one out. I could not grab much of anything. Still, it was nice to see use an Ultrahand and it was Pokmon themed too! We finished up with the batting game (which I failed at) and Game And Watch SP (which I rocked at) before heading to the gift shop. The gift shop was overwhelming! Lot of merch themed for each console primarily, but mostly blind boxes and one per customer! I also bought little console boxes thinking they were blind boxes, but they were actually stickers. Ah well.. From there, I headed to a video game store while my TC headed to some card shops by the hotel. We eventually did meet up ad got sushi for dinner which was pretty good. **Day 4** \\- April 1 We started our day by heading to Kinkaku-Ji which was amazing, but very crowded. Not helping things were all the tourist groups deciding that stopping in the middle of pathways was a great idea. Still, the grounds and golden temple were definitely worth seeing despite their small size. From there, we headed to Shikichi Shrine as it was on the way to our next destination. It was small, but quiet which was nice. Overall worth the stop before hitting a few game stores. From there we went looking for lunch, but every restaurant was closed! We decided to go to Familymart and just get food there as my friend wanted to get the Hololive folders they had. As luck would have it, the one we stopped at had an eating area, so we had our meal there. From Familymart we headed to Kyoto Imperial Palace which was very cool. It had a lot of neat buildings and artwork that I liked looking at at least. Plus a ton of Sakura starting to bloom. We headed back to our hotel to rest as we went to the Nijo Castle light show at night! It was pretty incredible with all the lit up trees and various light shows. Well worth the admission. Just dont expect to see much of Nijo Castle as its too dark to see. Also the food was pretty small so I left hungry. After that though we got some rest before we were to head to Osaka the next day. **Day 5** \\- April 2 I woke up later finally which was nice for me ;). We traveled this day to Osaka. At Osaka, we stayed in the Hotel new Hankyu Osaka. It was overall a nice hotel! Pretty nice room and relatively modern and clean. Plus it wasn't too far from the FamilyMart. After hitting our hotel, we headed to the Pokmon Center which was alright. My friend pointed out though that there was a Capcom store which I went crazy for. I went more crazy when I realized it was on a whole character floor and there was also a shop with Digimon stuff! I bought way too much here. In the same mall I made us stop for lunch. We went to a Chinese restaurant which was really good. I had a spicy noodle dish which I really enjoyed. Only problem was I left behind my hand sanitizer! Ah well. After this we headed to Denden town to do some shopping before going to the Dr Stone cafe,. I never watched the anime, but my TC did and when I found it on Collabo Cafe she said we had to stop. The food was alright and if wasnt too themed, but still not bad. From here we went to get my nephew chopsticks with his name engraved and back to our hotel to rest for USJ. **Day 6** \\- April 3 USJ time! After getting lost trying to find the train, we made it to USJ a little after 8 and pretty much got right in. We rushed to Harry Potter Forbidden Journey, then did Flying Dinosaur, then I did Jurassic Park, and then we did Space Fantasy. After that we grabbed lunch. We tried to get into Jurassic Park Discovery Center, but it was way too busy. Instead my friend grabbed a chili dog and I grabbed a slice of pizza. After lunch we grabbed our Super Nintendo World tickets that we bought in advance and my friend headed back to Harry Potter while I went to Jaws. I then grabbed a Wicked Churro because they had it and it was good! After this it was time to go to Super Nintendo World! At Super Nintendo World after getting a DK Power Up band, we headed to Donkey Kong Country only to find Minecart Madness temporarily out of service. So we waited around at the bongo game before giving up and going to Mario Kart. Of course the ride reopened while we were in line. In Mario Kart we got up to the part of the line where youre just about to head downstairs to the ride when all of a sudden we stopped. We thought it was because of the number of VIP Guests, but nope, it went out of service! So we took a seat and waited around. Thankfully it opened and they started rushing people through. After that we were able to go on Minecart Madness which was pretty fun. The single rider line took us about an hour start to finish despite the 130 minute wait time. And we got lucky and got to go together! After this we grabbed dinner at Yoshis Snack Island as Kinopios cafe had a 40 minute wait. I still really enjoyed it though! From here we did some shopping, played the games and fought Bowser Jr., and then headed back to the hotel to get ready to travel. Of course first I made a detour to the Dragon Ball popup shop though! **Day 7** \\- April 4 After waking up, I went went to pickup the chopsticks I bought for my nephew ont eh 2nd. From there I stopped at the Nintendo and Capcom store, which my TC stopped at the day before after leaving USJ before me, before swinging by the hotel and then catching a train to Nagoya. After adventures in finding a coin locker in the station, we headed out to an Arknights popup shop my TC wanted to go to and was the whole reason we stopped at Nagoya! I spent time in Book-off, grabbed something to eat, and hit Surugaya where I spent too much money. From there we headed back to Fujisawa to see my FIJ and retire for the night. Of course finding our luggage was tricky as our point of reference in the station didn't help. Thankfully AirTags helped a bit and we found them and got to my FIJ's with all our stuff. **Day 8 -** April 5 From my friends we headed to Ikeburkero for the Monster Hunter Cafe. Food was excellent even though Ive never played the game. I liked seeing all the Capcom characters on the wall and they had some neat Capcom Gashopan too below it. While in Ikeburkero, we decided to stop at the Animate store and then head to Nakano Broadway. I was a little underwhelmed by Nakano Broadway. A lot of older stuff and neat figures, but only 2 video game shops and no old video game plushies I noticed or wanted I did get a few things so it wasnt a waste. After this we grabbed dinner and headed back to Fujisawa to rest for the next day **Day 9** \\- April 6 My TC and I woke up early and waited for my FIJ to wake up. We eventually decided that we'd leave for Akihabara, our stop for the day as my FIJ doesn't like trains and could ride his motorcycle to meet us. He of course woke up as we were leaving, but agreed with the plan and said he'd meet us there. Once in Akihabara, we stopped at our hotel, the Remm Akihabara. We stayed here last time because we enjoyed it so much. This time we got a much nicer room too, so it was extra worth it! The breakfast was different, but still really good. Besides this weird coffee desert they had. No one we saw in the restaurant ate it. Anyway, we spent the day shopping of course. I went to a lot of the same stores I went to last time as I liked them so much. Didn't spend much time randomly hitting stores. My FIJ joined me for a bit too, but left before dinner since he had to work the next day. My TC and I ended up eating at a restaurant by the hotel which was just ok. They were out of everything and I got this ketchup spaghetti stir fry which while interesting, was just alright tasting. **Day 10** \\- April 7 After our first breakfast at the Remm, we headed to Sotobori Park to see the Sakuras. It was a nice park, but we didn't spend as much time there as I expected. Plus we were pretty Sakuraed out at this point in our trip. We spent maybe 45 minutes there, which wasn't great since we had Team Labs Borderless for 1:30PM and we finished around 11... We decided to take a walk through Tokyo which actually ended up being pretty nice. We got to see some fishermen on the river and some turtles! We also stopped at Hie Shrine which was alright, saw a Natural Lawson (I have no idea why it's called that), and saw a car tipped over! It was overall a nice walk and the greatest parts of your trip really are unplanned like this! We did eventually make it to TeamLabs Borderless which was pretty cool. I probably wouldn't do it again, but it was well worth one visit. I really liked the trippy room with the bird animation, the steam room, and the aquarium where you color your own fish. We had fun seeing all the characters people made out of fish. Once we were done with TeamLabs, we headed to Tokyo Skytree as we had Kirby Cafe reservations at 5:55PM. We hung around the mall checking out the shops and looking at the observation deck from below. Quick tip, there's a really nice souvenir store opposite the Kirby store in the other mall building. Got some nice stuff there for myself and friends. The Kirby Cafe remains excellent as always. I accidentally ordered the same meal I had last time, I realized once I got the plate that I remembered the Maxim Tomato mushroom on the pizza, but it was still really good. I did get a different drink that was also tasty. After dinner, and the obligatory selfie with Whispy Woods, we had planned to head to Asakusa Sumida Park to see the Sakuras. My TC was cold though and my FIJ had to get back home, so we just headed back to our hotel to rest for the next day. **Day 11 -** April 8 We started our day heading to Shibuya to pay our respects to the Hachiko Memorial Statue. There was a special event this day though, so we weren't able to get near the statue. Still, we got what is probably a rare daytime photo of Hachiko without anyone next to him. From here, we did some shopping at the Nintendo Store, Pokemon Center, Capcom store, and Disney store in Shibuya. We debated heading to the Square Enix store too, but decided against it. Instead, we headed to Shinjuku which I didn't realize had a huge maze in their train station! We had trouble getting out! We did eventually get out to stop at a Book-Off, see the 3D Billboard, and the Godzilla head. After this we had enough of Shinjuku and headed to Ikeburkero. At Ikeburkero my TC and I both did our own shopping. We first saw there was a Square Enix popup store so we stopped there. My TC got some stuff while I didn't. Outside though we found another store with Digimon stuff! More than the last place! So I bought my stuff there. After that we split up. My TC looking for cards and me looking for video games as well as collectible. We bought a few things and eventually met up to go to the Sunshine mall as we had reservations for the Dungeon Meshi Cafe. We spent some time at the mall seeing the Pokemon Center, Sesame Street Market (I needed more for my nephew!) and oddly enough an idol show too. Eventually though our reservation time arrived for Dungeon Meshi Cafe. Dungeon Meshi Cafe was excellent. The theming was a little lacking, but they made up for it with the food. Plus they had the soundtrack playing on loop too. My TC got the Red Dragon while I stuck to the Cockatrice. I made sure that we got the Sorbet made of dead sprits though because we of course had to eat that. I was so enthused that I went to Tower Records after to pick up the soundtrack! After this my TC said goodbye to my FIJ and we headed back to our hotel for our final full day in Japan. **Day 12** \\- April 9 We started our day going to Harajuku for the Owl Cafe. We got there early though so we spent some time wandering around instead. Nothing really too exciting, but a nice calm break from things. The Owl Cafe was pretty neat. We got their food which was actually pretty tasty! My TC is obsessed with owls so they were in heaven the entire time we were there. Eventually though it was time to leave. My TC headed back to Akihabara to do shopping while I headed to Fujisawa to see my FIJ. I took a pit stop in Yokohama to hit up the Surugaya which was well worth it. It takes up a full floor of a mall and has tons of games and collectibles. Including a whole wall of Pokemon plush organized by type which I found cool, even though I didn't get anything from that wall... I made it to Fujisawa though and hit up the Hard Off with my FIJ. We stopped for dinner at a Chinese place which was also pretty tasty, he had wanted to try it for a while, and then played some video games back at his place. Eventually though it got to be late and I said my goodbyes and headed back to my hotel to rest before the plane ride. **Day 13** \\- April 10 Our last day :(. We spent some time wandering around Akihabara hitting up some shops one last time before we departed for Narita. After a little adventuring on the train, we didn't take the Skyliner, we made it there in one piece. After one last meal at this nice vegan restaurant, it was time to board our flight and head out. Remembering a trip well spent and dealing with jet lag for a few days after..."}
{"id": "0036", "text": "Hi I'd like to share my experience going to Japan with my 2.5 yr little one (LO). Might be common sense to some but most times, toddlers dont make sense. We went to Yokohama, Hakone and Tokyo. **Background** My wife and I have been to Japan before without kids so if this is your first time, this may not be useful as we skipped many major tourist spots. We've been to Tokyo, Yokohama, Osaka, Kyoto, Nara and Uji and we were ok with this trip being less focussed on spending time as a family. We even considered making one day a Costco excursion but realized we dont even like going to our local Costco with our LO so why do it in another country? Our itinerary consisted of one major thing daily with the rest being nice to see. We are foodies but we weren't going to endure long lineups nor make reservations we cant keep because of LO's mood or schedule. We mapped over 100 places we'd go to knowing full well we'd be very lucky to hit 5 of them; we just wanted to be prepared with options within a particular area. Our LO is extremely social and affectionate. For screens, he only watches about 30 mins before he gets bored. He naps anywhere from 40 to 90 mins and is OK doing so in a stroller so we did not make any midday trips to go back to the hotel. He currently loves trains and adores animals so Japan seemed perfect. Honestly, comparing his temperament to other kids his age, we thought itd be easy. Hahaha... **Trip Report** My report will be more of a play by play of rambling thoughts while enjoying Japan with a toddler. Also littered with my mistakes so you wont make the same. Hotels stayed at: Sotetsu Splaisir Yokohama Station, Hotel Indigo Hakone Gora, Minn Nihonbashi Day 1 - Yokohama (Arrival) 1A) Reached Yokohama Station via airport limo by 9pm. Our hotel advertised a 5 min walk from a specific station exit but we got lost taking almost an hour. We followed google with wheelchair accessibility on and kept going around in circles. At times, we were led to stairs and I would run up to see where it would lead leaving my wife with our luggage and LO. I did consider just carrying everything up the stairs but some flights were long and I didnt want to injure myself the first night. In hindsight, I wish I called a cab from the bus stop rather than attempting to navigate a major transit hub with luggage and a hangry family. 1B) Dinner from Family Mart 5 min walk away. Also grabbed breakfast food for the next morning. Nice bath for LO and he had no trouble sleeping right away. We put pillows along the edge in case he rolls off but he managed to stay centred every night. Day 2 - Yokohama (Sankeien Garden &amp; Red Brick Warehouse) 2A) No jet lag for anyone and everyone slept well. LO up at 7am watching trains and going through his morning routine, We were out by 10AM after doing laundry. Just have to accept you will leave the hotel late even if you wake up early with kids. 2B) Across the street is Menba Hamatora where we had breakfast ramen which I suppose is just a lighter ramen. Good start to non-konbini food. 2C) Familiarized ourselves with the station area and shopped at the nearby Uniqlo to replace some barf clothes. Found great deals in their clearance section. 2D) Sankeien Garden in the early afternoon for a relaxing first day. We had some trouble finding the elevator to take us down to the bus terminal and flashbacks to last night returned. Asked station staff and they pointed us to a stop and bus different from google maps. Bus ride was smooth and required a 10 min walk from the stop to reach the garden. 2E) I wouldnt recommend Sankeien with a stroller. The grounds are hard to push through and bumpy so LO didnt want to sit. February is also not a great time to go as not much is growing. LO had fun looking at the birds at first but got bored. We did come across a monkey performance that kept him entertained until it got too windy. 2F) Took the bus through Chinatown to the Red Brick Warehouse. Had to get off the bus halfway as LO was having a tantrum and decided to calm down at the 7-11. Realized we forgot to eat lunch so the tantrum was justified. Returned to the bus and google told us to get off at a stop that required backtracking so a bit annoying. I wish there was a bus that takes you to the Warehouse directly instead of a 10 min walk away. 10 min is not a lot until its with toddlers. 2G) Red Brick was very busy due to a strawberry festival. Dinner at Kua Aina Burger and Tachihanatei Omurice as there is signage saying you could only eat at tables if you order from certain places. Sigh, I swear when people start seeing you pack your baby items, they immediately surround your table thinking you will clean up faster. I had to yell at a lady who tried to squeeze between me and LO while putting him in the stroller. 2H) Ice cream treats at Milk Marche. So far, none of these eateries were on our original list but were good. Im starting to think it may have been a waste of time but it was still fun to prepare. 2I) It was a nice albeit chilly walk along the water and night skyline towards Sakuragicho station. LO loved seeing the air cabins fly by and the waterfront is pretty at night. 2J) At Yokohama station, saw a Truffle Mini bakery. On our Tokyo food list so we grabbed some buns to go. Meanwhile, LO grabbed the hearts of several Japanese girls who couldnt believe how cute he was but its expected when he starts throwing finger hearts like candy. Proud of him. 2K) Nearby family mart again to grab breakfast for tomorrow since our mornings take so long. Day 3 - Yokohama (Snoopy Museum &amp; Grandberry Mall) 3A) LO loves Snoopy and we are going to the Snoopy Museum - today should be awesome. Arrived at Machida by 10:30AM. 3B) Its nice when the trains are outside as theres lots for LO to see. LO loves trains but cannot sit still in one. A lot of time spent reminding LO not to stand on the seats. 3C) The station is cute with Snoopy statues and Grandberry is a nice outdoor mall. We grabbed coffee from City Ave Bakery and burgers from McDonalds as LO was beginning to melt down. Even the taste of McDonalds could not satiate him. 3D) Meltdown averted by unstrapping him from the stroller and letting him run around. 3E) Long lineup for same day tickets. Definitely recommend buying online ahead of time. Also, dont recommend bringing a toddler here. In the stuffies and figurines area, LO wanted to touch everything so we had to stroller him and then LO got more upset. We screwed up and the tablet only provided temporary relief. 3F) Past the stuffies are comics and descriptions of the characters so lots to read. It was packed in there so even without a kid, it was not enjoyable as every exhibit became a bottleneck. LO did calm down and enjoyed the big statues and rooftop once things started to space out after the gallery but he was getting overtired. 3G) People quickly make way for you when youre trying to get a crying toddler out of the area, I waited near the exit while my wife continued looking as she is a big Snoopy fan. Theres a long queue to make a button and I told her to make one as a keepsake. I am a good husband for sacrificing myself. 3H) Left the museum and of course, LO now naps. We take this time to shop at the mall. Had some trouble finding an elevator to the 2nd floor and ending up going through the movie theatre. 3I) Went back home and had an early 5pm dinner at Sushiro under the hotel. Fun experience for the family. They had booth seating with boosters that clamp onto the table. I am happy that the conveyor brings the food your order directly to you so that LO touches only my food. Definitely glad to have arrived earlier since a line out the door formed by 5:30. Day 4 - Yokohama (Zoorasia) 4A) Today is zoo day. LO loves animals so surely today will be better. Grabbed pricy pastries from Flour + Water. Pretty inside though. 4B) Took Sotetsu line to Tsurugamine Station and had trouble finding the bus stop. Decided not to repeat night 1 and took a cab since happy toddler = happy trip. There was a taxi queue and one of the taxis advertised a baby seat. When approached, he directed us to the first car in line that didnt have a child seat. That same driver also helped put our stroller into the first cabs trunk. Props for following the order that taxis arrive I guess. We all sat in the back seat while LO had just the waist seat belt. 4C) There are a lot of trains going through the station so it took a very long time to even get out of the area via car so definitely felt gypped since we spent just as much time waiting at the train crossing as we did driving. At least LO loved seeing all the trains. 4D) Reached Zoorasia and LO fell asleep in the car but was able to transfer to the stroller. 4E) Looked at the map and started from the far end so that wed be walking by parks and LO would be awake for the animals. If youre taking a bus, youd have to return to the front anyway since its not exactly a round loop. Took our time and LO got in some playground time which made everyone happy. LO liked the life-sized animal statues. 4F) It was *a* holiday with beautiful weather but it was relatively quiet at the zoo. Very spacious (for the animals) and lots of viewing points to see the animals so it does not feel crowded. This zoo is well worth making a trip for. Shows only in Japanese but we got the gist. 4G) Ate pasta, curry and hokkaido milk ice cream at the Savannah Terrace which was delicious and reasonably priced. Plenty of seating and high chairs at the place. 4H) We were there from 11 - 430 and saw everything we wanted to see. Leaving the zoo, Google wanted us to go to Nakayama instead of Tsurugamine. Took the bus to Nakayama Station, grabbed Mister Donuts (so good) on the way and trained back to Yokohama. At Nakayama, the elevator is inside the FamilyMart so that took time finding. I would suggest departing from this station to the zoo as the bus terminal is more prominent. 4I) At Yokohama Station, went to Kyoto Saryo Suisen to get a matcha parfait and the infamous matcha mont blanc noodle ice cream. I think these noodle ice creams look better than they taste but the parfait was delicious. 4J) LO fell asleep before home and we needed to take advantage. Under the hotel, there is a Fuunji and this shop was on our list so Im glad we were able to get a seat right away. LO slept in the stroller with a blanket covering the hood while we ate. We couldnt take away the extra noodle we couldnt finish so went to FamilyMart to buy dinner for LO. Day 5 - Yokohama to Hakone 5A) The hotel organized luggage forwarding (1 L &amp; 1 M checked baggage to Tokyo = 4500 yen). We brought 1 carry-on with us to Hakone. Woke up at 7 but left the hotel at 11 since LO had a tummy ache and it was a no to everything kind of morning. 5B) Took the train from Yokohama Station to Odawara Station. It is a long ride so thankfully LO fell asleep halfway after seeing enough scenery. 5C) Lunch at Marugame Udon. Food was great and LO woke up later to eat 7-11 egg sando. 5D) Purchased the Hakone Free Pass and took the train to Hakone Yumoto. We wandered around the town and grabbed an ice cream coffee from Kuzuryu Mochi Fukuiri. You can skip this place. 5E) Hakone Tozan train from Hakone Yumoto to Gora Station. Youd get a better view sitting on the left (valley) than the right (rocks and stops). We got to Gora at 3pm. 5F) I thought 3pm was too early to check in so decided to do a partial loop. The cable car and ropeway were quiet so no problem bringing on our stroller and carry-on. Now, unless your hotel is further along the loop, dont bother starting - just go to your hotel and relax. Once at Owakudani, I saw a sign that said the last ride was at 4:45 so that wouldnt leave us much time at Owakudani since we still had to commute back. Probably spent 10 mins here since it was so windy. Seeing Mt. Fuji clearly with the sun setting was nice in our own private cabin. LO definitely loved the ropeway. 5G) LO loves interacting with people. At times, we pull back and ask him to keep his hands to himself, but they say its ok and continue playing. LO forgot about his parents and played with them the entire cable car ride so that was nice. 5H) Back to Gora shortly after 5 and now everythings closed. I regret not staying in Gora, having dinner and enjoying the onsen earlier. Contacted hotel for pickup. 5I) Checked in and now dark. While my wife stayed with LO, I walked to the nearby 7-11 for takeout dinner. The walk was quiet with no windy curves to worry about. 5J) Quality family time in the onsen. I do not regret paying more for an in-room onsen and it was so relaxing. Relaxing itself is a highlight when travelling with toddlers. Day 6 - Hakone (Loop and Departure) 6A) Checkout at 2pm so plan was to do the entire loop starting at Gora and finish with some onsen time before leaving. We left at 9:30am and the staff said the loop should take 3 hours so wed be back with time to spare. I was going to start clockwise taking a bus to Motohakone but since the hotel had a shuttle leaving for Gora Station at that time, we took it. 6B) Extremely easy to navigate the Hakone Loop with all the signage. No waits for the cable cars and ropeway. Seeing Mount Fuji on a clear day was awesome so I am fortunate to have seen it twice at different times. The ropeway from Owakudani to Lake Ashi scared LO because it was windy. Timing-wise, things were going well and then we got to take Lake Ashi and missed the boat by 5 minutes. 6C) Its a long wait for the next boat... I wish I looked up boat times to better plan our schedule as we couldve made better use of our time. We sat in the lounge area to feed our son. Once we could embark, we took some outside photos and then retreated to a quiet area so LO could sleep. 6D) I suppose it was cool to be on a pirate ship but it was a little boring. Had the Lake Ashi station had more to do or if I didnt just miss the prior boat, my mood probably wouldve been different. 6E) We got off at Hakonemachi since it was the first bus stop back to our hotel. At Motohakone, extremely busy with tour groups presumably doing the clockwise loop. While its still the same, in my opinion, the counterclockwise loop provides a better reveal of Mount Fuji going to Owakudani as well as the descent to Lake Ashi. 6F) We needed to transfer from H bus to T bus. 40 mins in (with a tantrum in between), we got off the transfer spot along with a Japanese couple. I looked at the bus stop and no mention of T. Google said a T bus would come but it didnt. We asked the couple and they said they were waiting for the same bus. Well, 30 mins and 1 wrong bus later, we finally found a T bus stop. Had I zoomed in on google maps to see the T bus route, I couldve noted the direction of the bus route and realized the stop was around the corner. 6G) Instead of 1, we arrived back at 2. The hotel was gracious in allowing us to clean up and not rush or charge us. I leave Hakone wishing I had planned better. 6H) I suppose there would have been no rush had we checked out and just gone straight to Hakone Yumoto but we wanted to take the shuttle bus to Odawara Station since we had luggage and a stroller. I preferred the views on the shuttle bus more than the Hakone Tozan since it went through the city which was more interesting this particular season and would do it that way in the future (especially with a toddler and luggage) if staying at this hotel. 6I) We arrived in time for the 2:30 shuttle but LO fell asleep in the stroller. Rather than wake him up for a crappy rest of the day, we waited for the 4:30 shuttle. The hotel held our luggage and we relaxed at the foot onsen. We decided to get food from 7-11 and besides 7-11 was a sushi joint called Kanagawa Maiton Koji. The sushi was great and LO woke up in time to eat too. I wish I had this for dinner instead of 7-11. 6J) Took the train from Odawara to Shimbashi and transferred to Ningyocho to retrieve our forwarded luggage from the service centre. Arrived in Tokyo later than expected. After check-in, we went to the supermarket next door to buy some food. Not an enjoyable shopping experience with a hangry toddler but better at the supermarket than stuck on a bus and train. The sushi bento was not particularly fresh. Tired after a long day of transit and hotel switching, we turned in early. 6K) Of note, this supermarket did not have any baby foods or supplies so youll need to go elsewhere. Minutes before closing, discounts on the prepared food ranged from 10% off for sushi up to 50% off for deep fried food. Lets just say you get what you pay for here. 6L) You can throw all your coins into the machine and it counts for you. Very handy for using up spare coins. Day 7 - Tokyo (Disneyland) 7A) Disneyland today! Exciting as it was my wifes first ever visit and LO is free. I purchased the tickets on klook two days prior while monitoring the weather and crowd predictor. Went in with low expectations and wanted to just take in the atmosphere so no lining up early to get ride passes. Breakfast was peanut butter and bread with milk for LO from the supermarket. 7B) Took the train to Maihama and arrived in the park at 10:30AM. We were able to get a 40th anniversary pass to Poohs Honey Hunt and paid for Premier Access for Beauty and the Beast so pleasantly happy we still got something despite arriving late, 7C) When going on rides, you need to park your stroller in a designated area before you can enter. Didnt realize and when my wife tried to line up with LO while I parked, the attendant just put up her hand to her face and motioned that I had to park first. The first rude encounter Ive ever had in all my Japan travels and at Disneyland too. 7D) LOs first ever ride was Roger Rabbits Car Toon Spin. We thought Toon Town would be child friendly and he likes cars so figure it was a good start. Absolutely loud and overstimulating so I think he had a great time. 7E) Dressed up characters were wandering around Toon Town providing great photo ops to LO after a scary ride 7F) LO intent on getting a dalmatian purse. He loves dogs and wore his new bag all day, 7G) We were able to go on 4 rides and watched a parade before LO fell asleep. Took the time to visit Cinderellas Castle and then have lunch at Plazma Ray. LO woke up during lunch and then we proceeded to go on 5 more rides including our reserved ones. Grabbed dinner at Hungry Bear and caught a bit of the fireworks show at 6:30 before heading home. Definitely recommend eating earlier to beat the rush. We were at the park from 10:30 - 7, got to ride a lot and LO napped well so it was a magical day. 7H) It was nice that the train ride home to the hotel wasnt too far from Disneyland which was the main thing we wanted to do in Tokyo. Again, a quiet train stop and neighbourhood helped to calm him after an exciting day and we just cooked A5 wagyu from the market for a late night dinner. Day 8 - Tokyo (Asakusa) 8A) Left for Asakusa at 10AM after another PB sandwich breakfast. Saw the crowd at Kaminarimon Gate and noped out of there. While there, approached by rickshaw drivers who wanted to take us to the quiet and real Tokyo away from all these tourists. Declined and walked a block away and found the real Tokyo. 8B) Yummy souffle pancakes at Iriya Plus Cafe. The menu says there is a 30 min wait for the pancakes but came within 20. A win when dining with kids. 8C) LO fell asleep after lunch so we took the time to shop at Nishimatsuya for clothes and toys. Its too bad they are not a tax-free store. We also spent time at GU since they were in the same building. LO woke up shortly after while at Uniqlo Asakusa. Comparing the stores, Nishimatsuya definitely has a bigger and better clothing selection for kids. 8D) Walking back to the station, we grabbed a delicious minced meat croquette at Asakusa Menchi but definitely too hot for LO to eat. 8E) Speaking of hot, we trained back to Ningyocho and had a yakiniku dinner at Wagyu Yakiniku Jukusei Ootoro. No issue bringing LO but my wife did hold him away from the flames while I grilled the meat. Quality of the meat wasnt as good as the one we got from the market. Laundry is a must since our clothes smelled of charcoal. 8F) Having a supermarket right next door to your hotel may not actually be a good thing. It is way too easy to grab alcohol and snacks every night on the way home. Day 9 - Tokyo (Jiyugaoka and Nakameguro) 9A) Only view at his hotel is the neighbouring building so the only way to occupy LO in the mornings is TV. Fortunately, they have one in the tatami room so he can eat breakfast at the same time. 9B) Sometimes google doesnt give the right wheelchair directions. Went to Ningyocho to take the Hibiya line and to get to the platform we wanted, we either had to get back to street level and find another elevator or take LO out of the stroller, go down the stairs, walk the passage under the rails and go back up the stairs. We did the latter and saw another family face the same dilemma but they had a baby and a non-foldable stroller so dad had to channel his inner Hercules to do the same. 9C) At Jiyugaoka to visit Hokkaido Milk Land. Their ice cream and flight were good but I liked the ice cream from the zoo more. They had cute cow statues outside that kept LO busy. 9D) Nearby was a cute childrens clothing store called Petit Main but didnt find anything for LO. 9E) If you hear of an area called La Vita that resembles Venice, dont bother. It was a wasted uphill walk. Other areas of Jiyugaoka were nice to walk through. 9F) Wife felt like tempura and google directed me to Tsunahachi. I cant recommend the place for non-food reasons. It was a 10 min walk from the station and LO fell asleep during the walk. 9G) The walk along the main street is narrow and youll do a lot of people and pole dodging. Once you find the complex, the restaurant is on the 2nd floor and there is only an escalator going up, and stairs but no elevator. Restaurant was closing in 15 min but they said OK to dine in. Another guest came in after so no longer felt guilty. 9H) Food and service was good although it felt expensive compared to our other meals to date. When we left, LO was still sleeping so we had to carry the stroller down together. We took a different route back to the station to go to Nakameguro. 9I) We grabbed tarts from Princess Tart and I thought they were just OK. 9J) We walked along the river and it definitely would be nice with the blossoms out but alas, too early. We walked towards the Starbucks Reserve and needed to get food for LO. 9K) We found a Matsuya not too far from Starbucks Reserve and ordered a childs gyudon meal. Pretty good. 9L) 120th in line just to enter Starbucks so decided to skip it and stumbled upon Sugekari Park. There was a playground and we had fun. There is an outdoor family washroom but its on the dirtier side with no changing table so we had to change LO standing up. 9M) Since we were on the west side, my wife wanted to go to Asics to buy runners. Instead of backtracking to Nakameguro station to train, we decided to walk since both methods took 30 minutes. It was a quiet but uphill walk towards Shibuya. 9N) Shibuya station area is extremely busy. We did not enjoy trying to navigate through the sea of people with a stroller and got split up at times. Cant imagine basing myself here with a LO. 9O) Asics Walking Shibuya does not sell runners dumb error on my part and we cut through the small streets to go to the Flagship in Harajuku. Wife was able to find shoes so our trek was justified. We then went to Kiddy Land and left after 5 minutes as it was super busy and not a place to bring a stroller. 9P) Trained back to Ningyocho and felt like burgers and went to Brozers Takeout. It was good but pricey for what you get as they were very stingy with the sides. 9Q) This was one of those days I wish I researched more as we wasted a lot of time backtracking. It also meant that LO had to spend a lot of time in the stroller. Walking around Jiyugaoka and Nakameguro with him in hand was fine. Shibuya and Harajuku were way too busy (and dark) so he had to be in the stroller where he grew restless. Day 10 - Tokyo (Ueno) 10A) We planned to go to Ueno Park and initially wanted to take LO to the museum but after the Snoopy debacle, decided to go to the zoo since he enjoyed Zoorasia. 10B) We got breakfast buns at a cute bear-themed bakery near Ningyocho called Orimine Bakery. 10C) Walked through the park, sat on a bench and ate the buns while LO people-watched. Just one of those simple breaks we all enjoyed. 10D) Pretty busy at the zoo on the weekend and what youve read online about the zoo being sad is true. So depressing that LO had a meltdown and we left roughly an hour after entering. Do yourself a favor and go to Zootopia if you want to visit a zoo. 10E) LO eventually fell asleep as we walked around the pond. The walk was better than the zoo. 10F) We wanted to go to Kamo to Negi but the lineup was long so we found another ramen shop called Aidaya. 10G) My internet failed me and I couldnt get a stable connection to google translate the Japanese only and no picture ticket machine. So stressful with people waiting so I ordered the most expensive items on the top row like any reasonable person would do. Tsukemen with 2 dipping broths and a wagyu and rice bowl was delicious. LO woke up in a better mood and staff were so welcoming of him. 10H) After lunch, we shopped at the Ueno Don Quixote and Daikoku drug store. We found the prices to be relatively similar save a couple hundred yen. Don Quixote definitely has more variety and much more stimulation. 10I) Tempura dinner at Tendon Tempura Tenya in Ningyocho. Price was half that of Tsunahachi but just as good. 10J) Needed to replenish drinks so my wife went to the supermarket while I watched LO in the playground. One of the perks of having both super close to your hotel. Day 11 - Tokyo (Odaiba) 11A) Originally wanted to go to Enoshima Aquarium because they had a capybara feeding with no age limit and we booked a reservation. Due to timing, we couldnt go while in Yokohama so had to make a day trip while in Tokyo. 11B) Unfortunately, the aquarium is 1.5 hrs away and we left the hotel late cause everything in LOs life was going wrong and there was no way we would make the reservation time so we scrapped the outing. Luckily, only lost 500 yen as I hadnt purchased the aquarium tickets yet. This is bound to happen with toddlers so all you can do is minimize your financial losses. 11C) Pouring rain so decided to go to Odaiba and stay indoors. Our hotel had umbrellas out in the front for guest use and of course, all gone by the time we left our room. We walked 8 mins in the rain to Daiso to buy a rain cover for the stroller but they didnt sell them. So we bought a kids poncho, unbuttoned and wrapped over the stroller hood (another reason not to use an umbrella stroller) and tied it down on the sides. It didnt cover LOs feet so we put his feet in a plastic bag. Sure the poncho was translucent so he couldnt see out clearly but this janky setup costing 110 yen kept him dry the whole trip. This Daiso has a step up the front entrance so will need to lift the stroller to enter. 11D) Odaiba has a lot of kid-friendly attractions but most of them like Kidzania and Lego are only available once your kid hits 4. At LOs age, we just thought about bringing him to Little Planet and wandering the malls. Odaiba was eerily quiet on a wet, weekday morning. 11E) It was really nice of the adults to give up their front row seats unprompted on the 1st car of the Yurikamome line so LO could see out. Unfortunately, theres no view when it rains since there are no wipers. 11F) Hungry and heard about Ramen Kokugikan. I thought it would be like Yokohama Ramen Museum where one could sample different ramens in a communal area. Nope, this ramen hall is 6 different shops with their own seatings so you had to pick one and commit. We chose a shop called Shinsen and the ramen was our least favorite meal of our trip. Fortunately, we only shared one bowl as we wanted to try another shop but the meal turned us off enough that we didnt want to try another place. 11G) Walking off the meal and came across Animal Touch, a petting zoo cafe, that LO got excited after seeing the animals through the little portholes (great marketing there). I read about this place when looking up capybaras but remember that they had an age limit. Decided to inquire and the person said it was fine. 11H) LO was so happy to see and interact with the animals, especially the bunnies and capybaras. It was pretty quiet in there so we even had the capybara room to ourselves for 10 minutes before another person came in. Before our trip, we watched youtube for kid activities and LO got so excited seeing capybaras, and now he got to feed one in person. I respect that people have their opinions on animal cafes but its a great rainy day activity for toddlers. Because of this, we skipped Little Planet as LO has now gone way past his nap time and got upset when we had to leave. 11I) While LO slept, we spent time shopping in the mall. Surprised to see the prices for items we bought at Don Quixote and drug stores to be cheaper at the BIC Camera in the mall. We also checked out Nishimatsuya and Babies R Us for baby supplies. Not being familiar with the Japanese brands, we bought Mamypoko Doraemon diapers and Smart Angel wet wipes. We bought a bigger pack since the smaller packages werent worth it and better more than less. Diapers did their job but the wet wipes were very thin and Id say we used 4-5 wipes when we might normally use just 1 at home so Id look for something thicker. 11J) Early omurice dinner at Pomme no Ki. Not bad and the egg fully cooked so LO could eat. Rain had stopped so time to head back. Day 12 - Tokyo (Shinjuku) 12A) Dry morning and we wanted to make up for yesterdays ramen so went to Ramen Afro Beats at opening. Great experience as it was the best ramen weve had and they were extremely welcoming of LO The stools have no backing so I was prepared to hold him in my lap but he sat upright himself. 12B) Next stop was the Fire Museum. Disappointed that the helicopter on the 5th floor was not accessible but LO had a great time in the basement checking out the different fire trucks and we all had a great time doing the activities on the 3rd floor. I wanted LO to experience an illustration coming to life akin to Teamlabs or at least Little Planet, and even though it wasnt exactly the same, Im glad there was something somewhat similar (color and scan your own fire truck) at this Museum for free. Here for a fun 2 hours. LO slept while we went to find coffee after. Its a commercial area but it was nice walking around a quieter part of Shinjuku. 11C) Since LO was sleeping, we wanted to eat something he couldnt eat and we craved sashimi. Trained to Ginza and visited Maguro Soma Suisen for tuna. They have lunch combos but I think the tuna bowls are where its at. LO woke up just as the food arrived so got something cooked for him to eat. 11D) Lots of department stores at Ginza so its quite easy to find a clean changing room which we did at the Lotte Duty Free. While changing our LO, met another tourist family changing their LO and asking where to buy diapers and wipes. 11E) We hoped to visit the Police Museum in Ginza but day went by faster than I thought. Instead, we went to Uniqlo Flagship since it started to rain. 11F) I liked that there is a childrens area with books and little tables but this isnt an ideal Uniqlo to bring a stroller because there are two elevators servicing the entire building shared with an OK supermarket and Kura Sushi. That means spending a LOT of time waiting for an elevator to go to each floor and not everyone will adhere to priority elevator etiquette. After one long wait, we just took turns looking at our own stuff while the other stayed with LO in the childrens area. 11G) Off to Mitsukoshi to buy specific souvenir sweets. We also came during the end of the work day so it was extremely busy. I later saw the same sweets available at Haneda Airport so I regret buying it here because you need to pay full price for the items, and then go up several floors to the tax free counter to get your refund. You can imagine the pain of doing this with a stroller with busy elevators so my wife waited on the 1st floor while I did the escalator route. This is even more painful when you leave your passport with your wife and have to backtrack. 11H) Since we were in Ginza, we went to Age 3. It was dinner time and raining so no wait. 11I) It was now 7 and we needed to take the Ginza line back to the hotel. We just missed a half empty train and thought its ok, well take the next. We waited 4 full trains before deciding to just sit on a bench and eat the sandwiches which LO loved. We finally got on a quiet train and got off at Higashi-Nihombashi since it skipped Ningyocho. We realized this station was quieter and a closer walk from the elevator to our hotel so noted it for going to Haneda. Day 12 - Tokyo (Asakusa) 12A) A drizzly day but this time we got an umbrella. After researching aquariums, we decided on Sumida as my wife wanted to check out a particular matcha shop in Asakusa. Bought the tickets on klook as it was cheaper than agoda and the official website. 12B) Got off the train at Tokyo Skytree and lots of people were transferring to get onto the NEX (judging by their luggage) so it was a very long wait for the elevator. This was the exit Google was telling us so I thought Id outsmart everyone by taking the elevator on the other side of the platform and connecting below. Yeah doesnt work that way and ended up taking a 15 min detour outside to end up at the first elevator stop but at least we got fresh air! 12C) Finally got our hands on cremia at the Excelsior Cafe at the Skytree station. Every bit as yummy as we remember. Its unfortunate that the Excelsior near Ningyocho didnt serve it. 12D) LO loved Sumida Aquarium! It was not busy and the mood lighting is on the darker and calmer side so not over stimulating. The jellyfish exhibits were beautiful and I liked that the fish tanks were at a low enough level that LO could see on his own. He also loved the penguins while the seals were a bit harder for him to see. There are some fish tanks at the end that are uncovered so we had to make sure LOs hands stayed out of the tank. Spent a leisurely 90 mins here. 12E) LO fell asleep so we started the walk across the Sumida River to Hatoya Asakusa. It was a nice enjoyable walk across the bridge despite the drizzle. 12F) Only 5 people in front of us and yet still waited 30 mins to order. The serving size was small for the price and I just ended up finishing my drink quickly cause LO was waking up and LO always wants whatever youre having. 12G) Walked towards Asakusa station hoping to eat at any quiet ramen shop. Saw Ichiran but needing to go down stairs eliminated them as an option. Nearby was a Ramen Watanabe. Pretty good gyoza and ramen. Only ones there when we came in but full when we left. 12H) One of the things my wife likes to do when visiting other countries is to go to their grocery stores. Wed been to OK Supermarket a lot and google showed a My Basket near Higashi-Nihonbashi station. This market was smaller, quieter and had self-serve checkouts. It was pricier than OK but the prepared foods looked more fresh. 12I) Dinner at a nice, homey shop called Raifuku Tei. Cheap and delicious omurice and tonkotsu and the restaurant was run by a nice, older lady. She definitely loved LOs presence. 12J) Final night at the hotel and spent the rest of the night packing while also stressing about the dreaded commute to the airport with all our luggage. In the end, we decided to train since the station was right there and we would go after morning rush hour and only on a train with the space to comfortably accommodate. Day 13 - Tokyo (Departure) 13A) Check out is at 10AM and because of LO, decided to just go straight to Haneda despite our flight being at 10pm. Even if we chose a hotel that stores luggage, I think wed do the same so we could ensure LO has a good nap and avoid busy times on trains. 13B) Arrived at Higashi-Nihonbashi station at 10:15 and jumped on an almost empty train! I realized later that we got on a rapid limited express so not only would it get there much faster, but it would make fewer stops so theres less people coming and going. I would highly recommend researching these train times on the Asakusa line to alleviate any concerns you have about taking a train to the airport. 13C) At Haneda, theres quite a lot to see and do. Things that helped occupy LOs time include seeing the model airplanes, going to the observation deck, taking a family sticker picture and letting LO get their first gachapon. 13D) Prior to security, there was a shop selling Japanese snacks. Theres also a fair number of eateries and we took our time eating at Ginza Ogura where we had delicious ochazuke while LO slept. There are more casual eateries with food court style seating where we took LO to eat Mos Burger once he woke up. 13E) I think weve circled through all the shops and the observation deck twice now. Im sure that we couldve made better use of a full day in Tokyo but with a toddler, you just want them to get a good nap since that sets the tone for the rest of the day so no regrets about going to Haneda early. 13F) Im not sure if this is only applicable to ANA but around 5pm, we inquired about dropping off our luggage a good 5 hours before our flight and they obliged! 13G) Got through security rather quickly, found our gate and decided to go to the TIAT lounge. Also went to the duty-free to use up the rest of our pasmo but should've went to Uniqlo instead. 13I) Spent 3 hours at the TIAT lounge as we had dragonpass. LO decided to have a bowel movement so we were fortunate they had showers there (but no changing room). Till next time Japan! If youve made it this far, congrats. Its an exhaustive read but while typing, it made me relive my trip so Im more than happy to write it out. I've provided some more hotel details and toddler tips in a separare post. So, should you take your LO to Japan? Depends on the temperament of your toddler (and how many) but absolutely! Id only reconsider if your LO cant sleep in a stroller as that will be a lot of time lost to backtracking and waiting out naptime while only one parent has fun alone. Otherwise, adjust your expectations, include toddler activities/playgrounds and embrace the good times along with the meltdowns. Would it be more enjoyable when theyre older? Probably but tomorrow isnt promised. Im already thinking about our next trip! So go with your LO and enjoy your time in Japan!"}
{"id": "0037", "text": "My spouse and I just returned from a trip to Japan for the first time and we are still spinning over how much fun we had. We were in Japan from April 13-26th, based in Tokyo (Shinjuku) and then Kyoto. Day 1 * Arrival to Hotel: 0130 AM, immediately showered and crashed. * Shibuya, Shibuya scramble * Lunch: A tiny lil restaurant on the 3rd floor in the ALDGATE Pub building. I can't remember what it was called to save my life. * Mega Don Quijote for a lil shopping Day 2 * Kawagoe - Train, Walking on our own time * Visited Kawagoe Hikawa Shrine to fish for omikuji - It was relatively quiet when we got there, about 10/1030 AM * Walked back through Kanetsuki street, through to Kawagoe's traditional centre. * Lunch: Unagi Denbe * Visited Kawagoe Kurano Shrine * Sake tasting at Koedo Kurari * Walking through the Crea Mall * Visited Renkeji Temple Day 3 * Takasaki / Imperial Palace on our own time * Travelled to Takasaki via Shinkansen (Unreserved, no issues. Bought the tickets the night before) * Attended the Daruma Painting workshop at : https://www.daimonya.jp/ ; we watched a short series of videos that detailed the history of the daruma and that workshop specifically then the host walked us through how to do the painting. She was very patient, using a translation app to talk with us, answer questions, etc. * Visited Shorinzan Daruma-ji Shrine * Walked the Imperial Palace grounds after returning to Tokyo Day 4 * Mount Fuji / Kawaguchiko (TOUR - Private) * Yes, Mount Fuji was out, and there were zero clouds in the sky. * Visited Kitaguchi Hongu Fuji Sengen Shrine (Absolutely gorgeous) * Visted Oshino Hakkai briefly * Stopped at Lake Kawaguchi, went speedboating * Lunch: Momiji-tei * Visited the \"Musical Road\" - I have no other way to describe this, IYKYK * Stopped in Oishi Park for a stroll in the flowers, ice cream Day 5 * Enoshima / Kamakura (TOUR - Group) * Visited Tsurugaoka Hachimangu Shrine * Visted Hasedera Temple * Visted Daibutsukiritoshi * Spent the afternoon on Enoshima Island (2 hours) Day 6 * Tokyo - Random Wanderings * Visited Senso-ji Temple early in the day (\\~9AM, shops were just opening, tourists were there but not in droves) * Walked Tanuki Street and found all of the lucky raccoons * Wandered to Daiba to see the Gundam statue and the area there * Wandered back to Shinjuku for \\~330PM to see Samurai Robot Time in Kabukicho which was 50/10 on the wild and wacky scale. I would honestly recommend this to anyone without any feedback other than 'you need to do this', that's how good it was. Day 7 * Star Wars Celebration (Final day) in Chiba Day 8 * Travel to Kyoto on the early morning Shinkansen (\\~910AM) * Afternoon: Arashiyama, Monkey Park, walk through the bamboo forest, Tenryu-ji * Kumanocha Cafe * Lunch: I honestly don't remember where we ate. But it was good! A little zen-esque place above a soft serve stand on the main strip. Day 9 * Kyoto, Uji, Nara (TOUR - Group) * Visited Nara Deer Park; fed the deer. Loved the deer. * Visited Todaiji Temple while we had time * Visited Byodo-in Temple * Lunch: Ujigawa * Fushimi-Inari Taisha; I love this temple. I do not love how many tourists came to this temple LOL. Lesson learned; will do it again another visit early in the morning solo. Day 10 * Miyajima Island &amp; Hiroshima (TOUR - Group) * Loved Miyajima Island * Spent a tiny bit of time in Hiroshima -- had to cut the tour early for personal reasons and return to Kyoto earlier than anticipated, but did get to see the peace park! Day 11 * Kyoto - Wanderings * Visited Kiyomizu-dera Temple * Strolled the ninenzaka walkway and the Sannensaka * Kumanocha cafe 2.0 - I liked it, my spouse wasn't vibing so hard with the matcha * Visited Ryozen Kannon Temple and the Buddhist paintings of Nirvana * Visited Kodaiji Temple and the Bamboo forest * Visited Yasaka Shrine * Enjoyed the *hell* out of the Miyako Odori dances at the Gion theatre. The performances were absolutely beautiful. Day 12 * Universal Studios Japan (Osaka); next time, we'll get timed passes for Super Mario World earlier in the day. Ours were for 6 PM, and the park closed at 7PM. RIP us, but we had a lot of fun whilst we were there. We had a blast. Whilst we were in Japan, we used Airalo for an e-SIM and had no trouble with it. Google Maps was our best friend.; it did get us lost on the trains once or twice, but nothing major. It was more or less a misunderstanding involving express/super express/limited express trains and where they go. The thing I enjoyed the most was just how green everything was, everywhere we went. The amount of moss, healthy trees, and a clear appreciation for nature was something I deeply appreciated. Second to that, was getting to enjoy Gion; I've wanted to visit it for years, simply to stroll along the streets and take it in. Getting to do that, and watch the Miyako Odori was the highlight of this trip."}
{"id": "0038", "text": "I visited Japan for the second time! Overall, this trip was different from the first in that a lot of Japan didn't feel new, and that a lot of the trip was not just trying to see the country or the big sites for the first time. I focused more on my personal interests and overall slowed down for some of the trip. The primary purpose of this trip was to visit the Osaka World Expo, and to visit Hiroshima/Himeji/Kobe, which I did not do on my first trip. I also have a trip breakdown on costs and award point accumulation located on the award travel subreddit Day 0: Check In I arrived in Japan, and there were JAL/HND employees waiting to help people with tight connections to Itami make the connection. I'll admit, Since I was told not to use my QR code I think this slowed me down as I had no checked bag. Nevertheless, I am grateful for the assistance provided! I checked into one of the Dormy Ins near Dotonbori. I loved how central I was to all the train lines I needed while I was in Osaka and when I was going to leave Osaka, having all of Dotonbori's good few, and having a (very very busy) public bath in the basement. Day 1: Osaka's Aquarium and 3 Ferris Wheels My first day in Japan I went to the Aquarium in Osaka. I have built this stupid structure more times than I can count in Cities Skylines and wanted to see the real thing. Overall, the Aquarium was great! The theme of the Pacific Ocean allowed for varying exhibits and animals, and I got to learn stuff about the Pacific Ocean that I didn't before, like that Panama has a dry season. The amount of effort they are taking to improve the exhibits was also cool to see with the coral reconstruction exhibit. The exhibits likely smaller than they should be, which is the one downside for the animals. I decided to then ride the Ferris Wheel next to the aquarium. I then realized I could ride all the Ferris Wheels in one day, so that's what I did! The Ferris Wheel on the bay was the best because it had the best views, best air conditioning, and a narration of the surrounding megacity. It was also the only Ferris Wheel to take cards. The Hep 5 Ferris Wheel was next on the list, and it had some very cool views of the trains at Umeda. However it's AC wasn't that great, was cash only, and didn't have a narration. The people who built the Don Quijote Ferris Wheel didn't think Don Quijote was claustrophobic enough, and rectified it by building a Ferris Wheel. This was the most expensive Ferris Wheel and is themed to the store. However, it doesn't go far enough. They need to lean into the cheese more with an on-ride narration. This Ferris Wheel has the worst views of the lot, but you don't really ride a Don Quijote Ferris Wheel for the views. Days 2-4: Osaka World Expo The Chuo line was crowded during the rush hour trips in the morning. But if you want to see my thoughts, here's my thoughts of the non-signature pavilions, and here's my thoughts of the signature pavilions Day 5: USJ I really didn't think I walked enough or was up for long enough at this point, so I went to USJ! I discussed those experiences on the rollercoasters subreddit Day 6: Rest and Alcohol I did my souvenir shopping on my free day. I bought an awesome set of My Hero Academia figures, got a new suitcase, and bought some clothes for family. After that I met up with people on the discord and went out for the night! Day 7: Osaka Castle and Ship My Bag I walked to Osaka castle through an ajoining neighborhood. It's always nice to see how people use the parks, and how relaxed it gets once you leave the busiest areas. Osaka castle itself was bigger than I realized, both in terms of footprint as well as height. The large park surrounding the castle was a nice way to get some fresh air and greenspace, and the paths were great. The castle itself provided fabulous views of the city and was the most informative castle both on the castle itself but on the important eventst that shaped it and its rulers that I visited. I find it funny that the old castle was literally burried to build this one. Afterwards I shipped my suitcase to Narita for pickup later. Day 8: Kobe Beef and a White Castle My splurge meal of the trip was a meal at Kobe Beef Ishida in Kobe. The teppanyaki chef was knowledgeable and personable, and spoke Japanese, Chinese, and English. The veggies and rice were cooked in the beef fat as well! This was a fantastic meal, but not one I am likely to repeat. I like my meat less fatty, but it was still delicious! Afterwards I went to Himeji Castle. This castle was far more beautiful than the castle at Osaka and was more fun to visit! You do have to take your shoes off, so wear socks! I stayed at the Dormy Inn near Himeji station, and this one might've actually had a full certified onsen and not just a public bath! Day 9-10 Hiroshima/Miyajima I boarded a Kodama train and ended up in Hiroshima. I had the spiciest noodles I had right near Hiroshima station, and made my way to castle. This castle wasn't that impressive on it's own in comparison to Himeji and Osaka, but still provided insight of how Hiroshima formed and the effect of Hiroshima after the bomb. I went to the Peace Museum via the Atomic Bomb dome. The best view of the dome is the side closest to the castle because you can see inside it. The museum itself was very visual, which when approaching the subject matter is what's needed the most. I also learned that everywhere I went in Hiroshima for Day 9 would have been wiped out 80 (yes 80) years ago. I stayed at the Dormy Inn near the peace park, and this Dormy Inn gave me a key! I got breakfast at this Dormy Inn, and wish I had at the others. Food was specialized towards Hiroshima, including Congre Eel rice, fried oysters, and deserts! Day 10 I went to Miyajima. I got to see the Tori Gate at low tide, and didn't want to stay for high tide. I also \"hiked\" up Mount Misan, which was really 1000 feet of stairs in 1km. My feet were tired when I reached the intermediate summit! The views were cool, and it was interesting the fire at the temple has burned for over 1000 years! I took the cable car back down. Day 11: Up to Tokyo and Roller Coasters! I went back to Tokyo this day, and man this was a tiring day! I got up at 6AM and went around the city. I replaced the mini me at Small Worlds, and it was interesting to see that the exhibits constantly get updated! I stayed at a hotel near Narita, and didn't fully get there until 9:30PM. I reviewed this day on the rollercoasters subreddit Day 12: Leaving Tokyo for a Night I left Japan to go to Manilla so that I could make a flight redemption (I couldn't change this). The Newport Mall in Manilla is functionally a mini mini vegas. Easy to access, beautiful, and overall just relaxing. Day 13: In Tokyo for 1 More Night I came back to Tokyo for 1 more night as part of an overnight layover. I tried Pepper Lunch, and wish this was in the US in more places than it currently is. The APA hotel gave me a free beer, and had a public bath! Overall, a relaxing way to end a travel day. Day 14: Leaving Tokyo I left Tokyo and Japan for real from Haneda. I was glad that the Uniqlo was able to take IC card, but I'll admit, I like the candies selection at Narita over Haneda. Narita's terminal 2 has more local chocolates than Haneda, which only seemed to have gift chocolate unless you found a vending machine. The JAL sakura lounge was fantastic for it's food selection, and the overhead shower!"}
{"id": "0039", "text": "This trip was from Jan 29th to Feb 19th and my first time in Japan. This trip report is mostly for myself, but maybe someone might learn from my mistakes as I try to from other peoples trip reports. I loved Japan, and even spending nearly 3 weeks there I felt I missed out on so much. In reflection, much of that was because of my over-planning at the beginning of the trip, and then the very real experience of doing all those steps! I ended up booking our next lot of flights a month after returning, haha. **Day 1: 29/01 Arrival in Narita** Original Plan * Arrive, catch free bus to hotel (Narita Tobu Airport Hotel), repack bags so we could forward our luggage and just keep the hand luggage, organise sending our luggage, pick up Ghibli tickets &amp; WiFi device from hotel What Happened * Pretty much happened as planned, Narita airport was easy enough to navigate once we got our bearings. We filled in the immigration card when we got there (tried to do the QR thing, paper was just easier). Also, our first experience of Japans Winter cold. Activated esim from Airalo. * First aid: only upset was that I ripped a nail off before leaving Brisbane. Was lucky that the hotel had a mini-drugstore on site open late so I picked up some antiseptic cream,finger bandages and nail clippers. Nail clippers were amazing, I clipped off the fake nail so it wouldnt keep catching on things, sprayed antiseptic and bandaged Stumpy up. Also, our first experience of Japans Winter cold. * Steps: 9,058 **Day 2: 30/01 Narita &gt; Miyajima (big travel day)** Original Plan * Shuttle to Narita, catch NEX to Shinagawa, shinkansen to Shin-Osaka, pick up JR passes at Shin-Osaka, shinkansen to Hiroshima, catch ferry to Miyajima, check-in to Ryokan (Miyajima Seaside Hotel) &amp; ride ropeway up Mt Misen if there early enough What Happened * Narita - H:11 L:-2/ Miyajima - H:7 L:4 * Travel: Overall, went to plan. I added a digital suica to my apple wallet, bsf got a physical suica. Bought our first konbini snacks and vending machine hot drinks (also tried my first drip coffee &amp; hated it). The NEX was meant to take around 45-60 minutes to get to Shinagawa, but there was a delay so it took about 2.5 hours which was not great for our tight schedule. Got to Shin-Osaka, picked up our passes and then reserved seats for Hiroshima. Got to Miyajima Island and the first thing I saw was that the ropeway was closed for maintenance (note: this will be a recurring theme) so that axed that plan. * Miyajima Hotel: They shuttled us from the port and we settled in for a traditional kaiseki dinner, which was really fun and interesting, then they turned down our futons and we turned in. View was lovely. * Steps: 7,893 **Day 3: 31/01 Miyajima &gt; Fukuoka** Original Plan * Morning: Breakfast at hotel, ropeway up Mt Misen (if not done the previous day), explore some of the island * Afternoon: Explore Hiroshima &amp; the memorials * Evening: Shinkansen to Hakata &amp; check-in to hostel (Fukuoka Hana Hostel) What Happened * Miyajima - H:10 L:4 * I got up to have my first onsen experience at 6am and it was lovely. Traditional breakfast before we went to explore. * The Island: Beautiful, clean and calm. There were deer and ducks everywhere. We were freezing our bits off so got hot drinks, explored the temple and tried to get our energy up. We passed through Itsukushima Shrine and ended up walking down to the aquarium. We were just in time for the Sea Lion &amp; Seal show, it was super cute! Tried our first claw machine and failed. Stopped for some hand warmers at 7-11 and had to stop the deer from eating our bags. * Travelling to Fukuoka: We had no time to explore Hiroshima in the end, just time to get our bags from the hotel, travel back to Hiroshima and then catch the next shinkansen to Hakata. We got to explore Hiroshima station surroundings for a bit though. * Checked into the hostel and sought out the famous streets of yatai for dinner. Not sure if its just because of the cold, but there was only like 3 stalls open. We stopped at the first one as they ushered us in, and had a really nice few bites to eat. * Checked out Minotaur (fashion) and our first Don Quijote. Super tired so we didnt stay out much longer. * Steps: 23,672 **Day 4: 01/02 Day Trip - Yufuin** Original Plan * Yufuin no Mori (booked tickets) to Yufuin, explore, visit a friend in Beppu, maybe see Seven Hells if time What Happened * Fukuoka - H:11 L:5 / Yufuin - H:10 L:6 + so much rain * High stress this morning as we had to get to Hakata Station and pick up our Yufuin no Mori tickets before we could board. The station was SUPER busy and I genuinely thought wed miss it, but we got through the line just in time. Turns out the Yufuin no Mori had some sort of maintenance so they substituted it with another train - was very sad, but what can you do. * It rained all day, but I bought an umbrella back in Fukuoka. Took a walk through the ghibli-esque village but felt no desire to do much shopping, so we went to the Snoopy Cafe for a dry reprieve. Bsf got the curry, I got a dessert, we tried the coffee again and did not like it lol, but we were dry and the food was good. Bsf picked up a Tanto themed umbrella, then we went on our soggy way to Beppu. * Met up with the friend as planned but didnt leave the station. It was already late, we were cold and damp, so bought a couple of things from the stores there then trained back to Hakata. * Steps: 15,546 **Day 5: 02/02 Fukuoka &gt; Kyoto** Original Plan * Check out teamLab Forest, visit some parks, shopping at Canal City, Shinkansen to Kyoto, check in to hotel (Sotetsu Fresa Inn Kyoto-Hachijoguchi) What Happened * Fukuoka - H:12 L:6 / Kyoto - H:11 L:5 * First experience catching a bus in Japan, which was exciting! Glade that bothe maps seemed to work well enough. teamLab Forest was interesting, and after a stop at Starbucks we explored Canal City and were blown away by its size. I think we only went to 2 wings? Visited the Docs store, Jump Shop and a couple of other places. Regrettably didnt visit any parks. * Eventually caught the shinkansen to Kyoto and checked into our next hotel. There was a Family mart right on the corner which we got many a breakfast at. * Steps: 16,056 **Day 6: 03/02 Kyoto Day Trip - Uji &amp; Kyoto West** Original Plan * Start in Uji - Nintendo Museum &amp; exploring * Kyoto West - Book a Miko experience, visit Toei Studios, visit Macho Bar What Happened * Kyoto - H:11 L:4 * Most of that stuff didnt happen. Decided to try the hotels breakfast which was buffet style mix of western and traditional. I got a Nintendo Museum booking for 4pm so in the morning we visited Kyoto Takashimaya Shopping Center for Nintendo (bought an AC pouch &amp; booklet), Mandarake and had lunch. Saw some interesting construction practices and cute florists. We then visited the Minotaur store nearby and bsf bought a cool hoodie before heading to Uji. I also think this is the first time we saw some cherry blossoms! * We got there a little before our session time so went to find something matcha-related. We visited TEA SQUARE MORIHAN Kura Cafe and everything was delicious but SO rich. * Nintendo Museum - we had fun, but it was crowded by now. We played with a giant controller and a couple of other games (cafe was closed by the time we finished) before heading back and getting sushi for dinner at the Aeon Mall just outside the station. I didnt realise we could get our Miis on our tickets, that would have been a great little souvenir! * Steps: 21,757 **Day 7: 04/02 Kyoto Day Trip - Kobe** Original Plan * Kewpie Mayo Tour in morning, visit Nunobiki Herb Gardens are for lunch, visit Mosaic ferris wheel * Dinner reservation at Tor Road Steak Aoyama (7pm) What Happened * Kyoto - H:6 L:0/ Kobe - H:4 L:-2 (FL -7 when snow began) * Instead of it being a 2 hour trip to Kobe, we managed to get a super express and were there in like 15 minutes so our Kobe exploring started super early. Went to get on the ropeway - closed for maintenance. So no herb garden for us, and we didnt have our dinner reservation until 7pm. * Feeling pretty rundown and miserable today (it was also the coldest day yet, -7 degrees) we didnt want to go far. We ended up getting crepes at HAHAHA CREPES, then heading to Kobe Harborland mostly to wander for a few hours. I got on the giant ferris wheel, we got some hot drinks and just tried to relax. Ferris Wheel attendant called my Animal Crossing pouch kawaii. * It snowed! My first time seeing snow, and it was kinda magical and whimsical. Noticed a significant temp drop right before all the flakes started drifting down. * Tor Road Steak Aoyama: Our splurge dinner. It was amazing. I booked this about 3 months in advance via facebook. It was delicious, and Chef Shuhei was very entertaining. An intimate dinner with just us and one other group of three. I mistook Shochu for Shoju, which I should have clued in when they asked how I wanted it (soda/straight/water) but I am dumb and asked for it straight. Boy did it just taste like lighter fluid. Didnt make that mistake again. 24,900 for our dinner, drinks and dessert. * Steps: 19,335 **Day 8: 05/02 Kyoto Day Trip - Nara &amp; Osaka** Original Plan * Explore Osaka - Umeda, Namba + Donki ferris wheel, visit Kaiyukan Aquarium + ferris wheel + Mt Tenpo, maybe check out Osaka bars, then possibly visit Nara if daytime left (wasnt too interested in the Deer Park) What Happened * Kyoto - H:5 L:-2 / Nara - H:5 L:-2 / Osaka - H:5 L:0 * Changed up plans and decided to visit Nara &amp; Todai-ji temple first. It was beautiful and Im glad we went. There were deer everywhere, despite the cold it was a sunny day, and then as we were leaving it snowed again! It was 3 degrees, said it felt like -8 degrees which seemed more accurate but it wasnt as cold as Kobe. Maybe because it wasnt as windy. * Visited a Book-Off in Osaka-Namba to check it out, did a bit of window shopping, visited America-mura and actually found this cool alternative clothing store (DIVINER OSAKA) but they only stocked size M and up, so bsf was sad they couldnt buy what they wanted. * Started snowing again briefly and we walked back to Dotonbori, then eventually found lunch at Ramen Zundouya and some strawberry tanghulu. Donki ferris wheel was closed for maintenance. * Made our way to Kaiyukan Aquarium and by this time it was freezing, darkening, the wind had picked up that we were actively fighting it in some streets that I gave up on Mt Tenpo. Ferris wheel was closed for maintenance but I doubt they would run anyway in the wind. The aquarium was wonderful, I bought a little stamp book and the whale sharks were beautiful. The gift shop here had less variety of merch than the one in Miyajima, which was a surprise. Made our way back to Kyoto and finally tried Japan Maccas. Interestingly different, and less greasy for sure. * Steps: 21,032 **Day 9: 06/02 Kyoto &gt; Nagoya** Original Plan * Fushimi Inari, rent bikes to see more shrines, check out Gion district, possibly book a tea experience * Forward large luggage on to Tokyo, Shinkansen to Nagoya and check-in to hotel (9h nine hours) What Happened * Kyoto - H:5 L:-3 / Nagoya - H:6 L:0 * We did not do any of these sightseeing things, lol. We were exhausted. We checked out of the hotel and mostly just wandered around. Outside of Kyoto stations main entrance there were a bunch of school children asking us questions for a school project, then they had a laminated sheet of suggestions. It was really cute, and when we mentioned we wanted to see some One Piece stores they got super excited and told us their favourite characters. Had lunch at Shabu Shabu Tajimaya in the Aeon Mall, then checked out some more stores and the Square Enix pop up store. * Caught the shinkansen to Nagoya, checked in to the 9h capsule hotel and retraced our steps to the JR Gate Tower to explore BIC Camera. My feet needed a rest so eventually I just sat and waited for bsf to finish their shopping - they bought new earphones. * Steps: 16,759 **Day 10: 07/02 Nagoya (Ghibli Museum) &gt; Hakone (big travel day)** Original Plan * Drop luggage at Nagoya station, visit Ghibli Museum, back to Nagoya station, shinkansen to Odawara and use Hakone Freepass for local trains to hotel (Emblem Flow Hakone) What Happened * Nagoya - H:7 L:2 / Hakone - H:8 L:3 * Ghibli day! Dropped carry-on, made our way to Aichi park. I was worried it would be difficult to find but it was fine, signage was great. Another cold, snowy day so it was extra whimsical. We went to Valley of The Witches first, rode the rides, and Howls Moving Castle was so beautiful. I wish we could take photos inside. Went to the Grand Warehouse at 11am and it was even busier. The theatre played a super cute film called A Wrestlers Tail, and we braved the giftshop and bought too much. Lunch at Flying Oven, some more purchases at Witches Coven 13 (no size in the shirt I wanted to buy ) and then a quick trip to the rest of the areas. We wrapped up around closing time anyway and made our way back. * On our way to Hakone I realised that I miscalculated our transport &amp; transfer times, and that we wouldnt be getting to our hotel until after 11pm, which thankfully they just left us a key at reception. I really, really enjoyed this hotel and I wish wed stayed another night. The bedding was great, facilities felt pretty modern and had a nice vibe. * Steps: 17,499 **Day 11: 08/02 Hakone &gt; Tokyo Shinjuku** Original Plan * Drop luggage at Gora station, complete the Hakone loop (ropeway + pirate ship), visit Hakone Shrine and return, Shinjuku Romancecar to Tokyo and check in to hotel (9h nine hours) in Shinjuku What Happened * Hakone - H:8 L:2 / Tokyo- H:9 L:1 * As above. Had another 6am onsen dip except I fell over in this one. Water was milky white and I missed the step (rip) so had a scrape on my leg which ached in the cold. Dropped our carry-on and headed up. Sounzan station had a wonderful viewpoint with a footbath, and a giftshop. Made note to buy some things on the way back. * Owakudani to Togendai ropeway was closed for maintenance so we got on a bus instead, where we then caught a pirate ship over to Motohakone-ko. Visited the konbini for snacks and hot drinks, then walked to Hakone shrine - also closed. Still enjoyed the walk and came back, returned to Togendai via pirate ship and the bus back to Owakudani. There was a heap of traffic and took us ages, so lucky our romancecar ticket was for later in the day. * We thought the Owakudani Kurotamagokan was displaying signs for a Black Curry lunch, but it was actually only the diy packets for ramen. Went back to Sounzan station and while bsf used the footbath, I revisited the giftshop. So many strawberry scented things! Also some sakura-flavoured fairy floss, and a nice warm kumopan to share on the way down. * Made all the transfers to eventually catch the Romancecar into Shinjuku. Checked into our next capsule hotel, then decided to get konbini dinner and crash. Some tourists loudly rolled their suitcases into the capsule floor at like 1am and wore their shoes in. * Steps: 14,076 **Day 12: 09/02 Shinjuku &gt; Asakusa** Original Plan * Explore a bit of Shinjuku, then head to Asakusa and check in to final hotel (APA Kaminarimon Minami) and explore Asakusa What Happened * Tokyo - H:11 L:1 * I dont know what it was about Shinjuku, but this morning was aggravating. Maybe it was just us. We wanted to find the station wed eventually leave from to Asakusa, and maps was just confusing and we were hangry by the time we actually found the entrance and nearest coin lockers. I thought people were exaggerating about Shinjukus stations but they were not. Walked for a bit and eventually had lunch at Le Salon De Ninas - it was the first restaurant so far we had to use the pedestal to get a ticket, and some girls already waiting helped us use it when they saw us sit down to wait instead of using it. * Visited Tower Records, bought some things. There was some in store pop idol performance so it was loud and crowded. Got some matcha lattes at Gap Vintage before finally heading to Asakusa to check into the last hotel of the trip. * Decided to check out Harajuku, specifically to see the CTCTYO store in the Laforet building. We also discovered Ai to Kyouki no Market. Lots of different artists, and one cube in particular just had some exquisite jewellery. CTCYO and this market became our favourite stores of the trip. * Saw a Lush store nearby. We have Lush in Australia but it was fun to see the difference in product ranges and the staff were so friendly. We met a couple there (one who was in full lolita) and had a lovely chat. * Steps: 15,005 **Day 13: 10/02 Ghibli Museum** Original Plan * Visit Ghibli Museum (10am) and explore local area What Happened * Tokyo - H:11 L:0 * The Ghibli Museum was lovely. Had lunch at the museum which was kind of eh, and the giftshop was jam packed. The film they showed was Mei and the Kittenbus. * Caught the bus back to Musashino and did some exploring. Bought a pouch and some gacha from Kuusoogai Zakkaten (stationery store), then planned on visiting Kichijoji Petit Mura but somehow ended up in the Tea Stand, so just got a drink there instead. * Visited CTCYO again because bsf was getting fomo about items wed seen previously. Dinner was at a restaurant close to our hotel that we saw a line outside every night - Asakusa Gyukatsu. We waited for over an hour in the cold (and had to listen to tourists complain about the wait - like ok? find somewhere else then) and it was delicious. We felt compelled to eat quickly because of how busy it was, but still amazing. * Steps: 11,902 **Day 14: 11/02 Yokohama** Original Plan * Visit Yokohama Strawberry Festival &amp; Cup Noodle Factory What Happened * Tokyo - H:10 L:1 / Yokohama - H:10 L:2 * Another super tired day - we went to the Yokohama Strawberry Festival and I was surprised it was a small indoors event. It was of course packed, so really we just got some delicious desserts, some daifuku and gtfo. * Decided to axe the Cup Noodle Factory and visit Nakano Broadway instead. So much to see! I got some One Piece merch, and could have easily spent more time there. Had dinner at Asakusa Umaimon Aduma, and it was delicious. * Steps: 10,948 **Day 15: 12/02 Day Trip - Disneyland** Original Plan * Visit Disneyland What Happened * Tokyo Weather - H:13 L:2 * Visited Disneyland! My first time ever. It was chill, but very busy. During the day I actually got a little sunburnt on my ears, but at night it was super cold and windy so they cancelled the fireworks. We tried the turkey leg, some other bits, and they were all fine. Went on as many rides as the day allowed, but Beauty and The Beast was my favourite. Was a little stressed booking things with the app but it worked out fine. * The giftshop at the entrance of the park was wild. Ive never been to Disneyland so I really wanted a pair of ears - bsf and I got separated practically immediately, and this was the first time I actually got anxious about a crowd. I dread to think what another countrys Disneyland is like. Thankfully, it was calmer in the evening. * Lost &amp; Found: Lost my bank card somewhere around 5:30pm, realised within the next hour when I went to use it. I for sure thought it was goners, but I went to L&amp;F and it was there. I told them where I thought Id lost it (between Poohs Hunny Hunt at 4:30ish, then the Castle about 5:30ish), what was on it, and sure enough it was there. The two people in front of me lost their phone and it was there, and a set of ears and *they* were there. Wild but wonderful. * Steps: 23,445 **Day 16: 13/02 Akihabara** Original Plan * Explore Akihabara, lunch reservation at Eorzea Cafe (1pm) What Happened * Tokyo - H:13 L:4 * Explored Akihabara, visited some second hand stores and got some doujinshi and trinkets, got lost on the way to Eorzea cafe (maps did something weird) so we got a nice jog in before lunch. Eorzea had some nice lunch items and was very cutely themed. We werent ready to head back yet so continued exploring and found the Final Fantasy Cafe &amp; giftshop to look through. * Visited Yodobashi Akiba * With no actual plan for the afternoon, I finally sat down to figure out what the hell I was going to do about Stumpy. Im used to salons taking walk-ins back home, but it didnt seem to work like that. Just outside the station was a Nail Quick atr and managed to get an appointment online for that afternoon. The tech did such a fantastic job. Was literally so relieved and Kaneko was so very patient with me and my questions. Felt nice to have the claws off. * Steps: 11,650 **Day 17: 14/02 Day Trip - DisneySea** Original Plan * Visit DisneySea What Happened * Tokyo - H:12 L:3 * Visited DisneySea! This park had a much chiller vibe compared to Disneyland, and we finally tried some of the flavoured popcorn. They were sold out of the Small World popcorn buckets so got a Tangled one instead. It was another beautiful but windy day, so they were closing the park early at 6:30pm. I managed to get the Tangled ride. Indiana Jones and the Haunted Mansion were super fun, and Aquatopia we managed to fit in right before close. We were late to our lunch booking at Restaurant Sakura, and I apologised profusely and tried to convey that if there were no spots left we understood but they ushered us in anyway and told us to try and be on time. Could not apologise enough! No fireworks again, which was really my only major disappointment. * Steps: 23,925 **Day 18: 15/02 Harajuku + Ginza** Original Plan * Explore Harajuku, then explore Ginza &amp; dinner res at the Vampire Cafe (7:30pm) What Happened * Tokyo - H:13 L:6 * Starbucks visit this morning (like most mornings), but this time they had put out the cherry blossom themed goods! Had a strawberry &amp; sakura soy latte. * Visited Takeshita St in Harajuku and was underwhelmed. It was crowded and I was hoping to see some great alternative fashion but it was eh. Saw some cool trinkets, OP jackets, and a couple of cool stores we checked out but nothing inherently alternative beside like ACDC Rag etc. Definitely some cutesy stores though. * Decided to go to Sunshine City to check out the Mugiwara store and Donguri Republic. There was a convention at the same time so there were a bunch of cosplayers. Got my first and only gacha of the trip - a plastic tamagotchi ring. Had a nice lunch here then went back to the hotel. * Ventured out for our dinner res at The Vampire Cafe in Ginza. It was a fun time, although a one-and-done thing. Food was nice enough and themed on point. 21,300 for dinner for two and a few drinks. * Steps: 15,453 **Day 19: 16/02 Tokyo Flea Market + Tokyo Tower** Original Plan * Visit Oi Racecourse Markets, then see Tokyo Tower What Happened * Tokyo - H:16 L:8 * Visited the flea market in hopes of finding some cool trinkets and some fashion items. The fashion didnt speak to me, except one lady with a gorgeous pink car but when I got closer the style didnt suit me. But I enjoyed combing through stuff and I got some cute chopstick holders, and bsf got some cool glasses. One of the vendors gave me an old coin as a gift after I bought from him. I overheard another tourist complaining to a shop owner about the conversion fee if she paid by card, and that the shop owner should discount the item because of it could only roll our eyes at that. * Tokyo Tower was crowded but cool to look at. We got lunch in the food court and did some shopping, but it was such a grey day we didnt go up but took a walk around outside instead. We decided to visit Tokyo Skytree for our evening activity, and got sucked into Tokyo Solamachi beforehand. Wed seen MyFragrance in Kyoto already but decided to make our own fragrance which was fun. Then we went up the tower and spent some viewing time up there, but it was so crowded so we bailed pretty soon after. * Went for a walk around Asakusa, and we ended up in Donki for a little look around. Didnt buy much but I knew Id be back. Watched a guy in a panda suit wander around and play guitar. * Steps: 19,087 **Day 20: 17/02 Day Trip - Kamakura &amp; Enoshima Island** Original Plan * Visit Hokoku-ji Temple and drink the tea, explore Kamakura, make a ring at Glanta and visit Oxymoron for curry, then visit Enoshima Island for the winter illumination What Happened * Tokyo - H:14 L:4 / Kamakura - H:12 L:2 / Enoshima - H:14 L:4 (+ lots of wind, felt way colder than Kamakura) * Pretty much on par with what we planned. Hokoku-ji was beautiful, and we bought a ticket for the Tea House. I was not strong enough for the drink, and even the sweets didnt help, but I soldiered on. It was peaceful and tranquil. * We went back to Kamakura at this point for some shopping but also checked out Hataage Benzaiten Shrine, which was surrounded by pigeons, ducks, seagulls and catfish. It was such a lovely surprise! We got love fortunes there. Oxymoron for lunch, and then we wandered Komachi-dori St. Found a lovely second-hand kimono shop (Kitano-ya) that bsf bought some hakama from. Decided to skip the Glanta workshop. * The train to Enoshima was a lovely view. At some point an obaa-chan boarded the train and I offered her my seat. When she got off the train she handed us a box of two packaged cupcakes and thanked us. We got a sunset view of Mt Fuji on the way over to the island. * The Winter Illuminations were pretty and we had probably the best seafood wafer snack there that we wish wed eaten more of. Spent a few hours here looking at the illuminations and some cherry blossom trees before finally calling it (too cold and too dark) and making our way back to Asakusa. Lots of drunk tourists on the island when we left, surprisingly. * Steps: 16,349 **Day 21: 18/02 Shopping &amp; Souvenirs** Original Plan * Hit any last shops for souvenirs etc, pack What Happened * Tokyo - H:8 L:2 * Day: Hit up Starbucks for some sakura themed coffee beans and mugs to take home, then into Harajuku. Tried to find the Mugiwara Store which google said was open, but the Tokyu Plaza Harajuku entrance was closed for maintenance. We gave up and went to Shibuya Parco first to check out the Jump shop, Pokemon store and Nintendo store (in which I spent lots of money on AC things). Had yakiniku for lunch at KINTAN which was fantastic. Then down the street to Hands (also bought many things, mainly stamps). It snowed briefly when we exited. La Foret was open by now so we made our way back there to check out our favourite stores, then back to Lush. Finally we backtracked to Miyashita Park to visit another Minotaur and check out shops. * Evening: We had shabu shabu at Kobe Beef Daia, and it was such a lovely dinner. They gave us strawberries for dessert on the house, and helped us make origami to stick on the walls. It was an amazing dinner for our last night. * My night: I braved Donki while bsf went back to the hotel. I was determined to get a bunch of things, so at about 10pm I ventured forth. I spent about an hour looking through different products, translating etc and selecting. Then I lined up for the tax free line and waited for **2 hours** like an idiot with the line barely moving - it was insane. In the end I remembered I have free will and who gives a crap about tax free at this point, so went down a level to the normal checkout where I learned that all of the medicated items I wanted can only be purchased on the previous floor - which was the tax free line. There was no-one manning the medication only counter and no separate lines for non-tax free, so gave up and only purchased the non-medicated stuff. Went back to the hotel and packed. * Steps: 19,372 **Day 22: 19/02 Last day :(** Original Plan * Use hotels transport partner to send our luggage ahead to Narita, get breakfast, then enjoy a few more hours of last-minute shopping What Happened * Tokyo - H:8 L:1 * I bought extra weight for Qantas due to my souvenirs. It was way expensive, so if this were to happen again Id probably just post stuff home. APA used Airporter which I thought seemed a tad more expensive, but they did allow us to send our luggage same-day to Narita airport which we did. We had a later flight so this helped. * We had breakfast at COFFEE KAN Asakusa, which was fine. The toast and pancakes were amazing, I only wish the boiled egg I got was warm. Also took some photos outside of the Bandai HO Building. * We (me, running off fumes) made our way back to Harajuku for one last look at Laforet and Lush (which turned out great because they had a stock refresh), and tried to find the cute Mugiwara store. Turns out we were looking in the wrong place - Tokyu Plaza Harajuku (which was closed the day before) was different from Tokyu Plaza Omotesando, where the store actually was, duh. We finally found it. * Lastly we returned to Akihabara, for a good ol nostalgic meal for bsf at Marusho, located in Yodobashi Akiba. Japan Eats actually did a video on this place in Jan, but bsf remembered eating at this place about 10 years ago. Its changed a bit, but the ramen was still super salty and great. I visited a nearby chemist and picked up all those medicated goods I couldnt get at Donki the night before. * It was back to Narita airport by train after that, then the usual process of heading home. The guy at the JAL desk that had our luggage was pretty rude, the only rude person wed really experienced on the trip. I put my tax-free items in my checked baggage, and just had my passport scanned but they never asked to check it. * Steps: 17,981 Thoughts: * Hotels (&amp; other buildings): * Temp: Inside buildings really are much warmer inside. I was constantly taking my jumper off, and at night I would sweat my ass off until I acclimated again. * My power bank would never charge to full overnight, but it did enough. * Some hotels had pyjamas in a OSFA, as a size AU 16-18 I found them uncomfortable to wear. The hotel yukata were fine. * TV - we really enjoyed just flicking through channels and watching random programmes and ads when we had our downtime. * Language - I tried to speak as much Japanese as I could. It was fun, people seemed to understand (or try to) and were so kind and helpful. I do not speak Japanese, I was just doing my best with phrases and context. * Shoes - I took a pair of Hokas (bought specifically for the trip, not broken in), Reeboks, and some black boots. I wore the Hokas the most, and having another 2 pairs to switch between was great. Bsf is a chunky boots person and lived in them. * Clothes - Im always cold, so I wore fleece thermal lining, my regular clothes, then a puffer most days. On the sunnier days I wore a thinner thermal but still had a puffer jacket. * No Pepsi Max anywhere we went :( Coca Cola is king * Souvenirs - I regret not buying what I wanted in Kyoto and waiting to see what Tokyo had, like from the Nintendo Store. Tokyo was sold out of some of the things I wanted. Also, a lot of stores had city-specific stock. * Money - I used the digital suica majority of the time (apple wallet, used my UP card to top it up via Apple Pay), and only a few transactions in cash. My UP card had no international conversion fees which was good. Bsf used mostly cash as their BOQ bank card worked only a fraction of the time we were there. * Data/Power: I was going through at least one charge a day as I was doing majority of the mapping, translating and photo taking. You dont really need more than one power bank imo. ESim worked fine, so did the Wifi device, and there was also a lot of free wifi around. Things Ill do differently next time: * Plan out which historical and cultural places to visit instead of winging it. We ended up missing a lot because we were more focused on shopping spots. Also, visit more parks. * More social/nightlife activities. I was craving more social interaction (outside of my dearest travelling companion) and I think that really affected my mood too. On the flipside, bsf is highly introverted so the lack of small talk was great for them. * Explore more of the local streets. We stayed in Asakusa for like 10 nights and never even visited Senso-ji temple because it was closed by the time we got back from our days, and just way too many tourists when we would pass it in the mornings. Then it was the end of the trip. * Spend more than 1 night &amp; day in places so we dont feel rushed. * Take less - I was worried about many things so overpacked on thermals, and took 3 power banks - definitely didnt need as much as I took. * Just send stuff home via post if necessary. Way cheaper. * Not jam-pack my backpack for everyday adventures. If I need something, I can buy it while Im out. * Shinkansen: For all the shinkansen reservations we had station staff book them (especially with multiple legs and using our passes), but for all the local trains etc we booked them ourselves or used our suica cards. * Just book a flight in the city you want to start in. The extra money is worth it not to lose half a day to a full day in travel. Thanks for reading if you did! It was still a great trip but I would do things differently if I could rewind. Next trip is in Autumn and it will be much more relaxed, and I have a bigger bucket list now for future trips. Maybe even a road trip eventually."}
{"id": "0040", "text": "Hey all, I first learned about World Expos about 2 years back, and as a kid, I always loved reading about World Fairs, but didn't put 2 and 2 together that they were the same thing as World Expos until recently. Once I found out, I started saving up to be at the Expo at day 1, just to see what it was like. And besides, if it sucked like Fyre Festival, atleast I'd be in Japan instead of a random island . If you'd find it useful, I made a Google Sheet to make the itinerary, to track budgeting and preparation, and to make checklists of my wishlist meals and products. It is designed to be a bit more friendly than I'd probably normally do, since my family I travelled with also had access to it, so you all might find it useful. Imgur Album Previewing the Google Sheet Google Sheet From My Trip - https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/15VDAVe2rZkJqH5R8EPuRm6H1QthJKLTk0F9gatR2QKY/edit?usp=sharing With that, here are some notes on how my itinerary worked out in practice: \\* The Expo was actually pretty good, with 2 main sticking points. 1, the reservation system sucks. I had assumed some slots would be set aside for same day reservations, but that didn't seem to be the case, meaning all slots can be filled before anyone is on site. If you go, try and reserve as much of your favorites as possible beforehand (which is harder now that they aren't doing the reservation lotteries). Without reservations, the Commons pavilions and other public activities could probably last you a bit over a day, but it's tough after that. Also, it isn't easy to learn beforehand, but some pavilions allow non-reservation queuing too, like Pasona Natureverse, the main Healthcare experience, or the USA Pavillion. At those pavilions, registration is more like a fast pass or extra experience, rather than an exclusive ticket. The only issue is you can't really tell if you can queue without reserving until you're already looking at the Pavillion's entrance. Me and my family also very easily used each other's Expo ID logons to improve our chances when reserving, which I recommend. 2, the second main issue was rain. I was there day 1, and the Expo was clearly designed more for sunny days than rainy ones. The exits aren't good at handling a huge amount of people leaving, and while it got better on the less busy days, I still say my worst times at the Expo were when it was raining. On the topic of safety, I do think that I'd actually feel safe during a earthquake, since the protocol there is to stay in place. But for anything that would require a whole island evacuation, the East Gate simply can't move people quickly enough, which would be worrying if the queue lines weren't as orderly as ever in Japan. With that, leaving during non-peak times, or staying late for the actually pretty awesome drone and water show are my recommended exit strategies. And like the main point here, try your hardest to avoid the Expo while it's raining. To be fair to the Expo too, you'd want to avoid most events like this, i.e. Universal Studio Japan while it's raining too, so not a super unique issue. \\* You'll notice the weirdness of me flipping the standard by having all of our Tokyo experience be a single day trip. Originally, I wanted to do 4 days of Expo, and not bother with Tokyo, since the Expo only happens once every 5 years, but I could always save up again and Tokyo would be waiting for me. But, my brother and mom wanted to join the trip after seeing me plan it, and they weren't as hungry as I was for another trip to Japan sometime in the future, so they wanted to say that if they went to Japan, they went to Tokyo. So Tokyo we went. I didn't have to be convinced too much to add a Tokyo section, since Like a Dragon/Yakuza is my favorite series, so seeing Kabukicho would be great. Also, in retrospect, 4 days of the Expo is too much if you don't already have lots of cool reservations premade. But, we didn't have much time to spare for Tokyo, since we already had day trips for things I had already planned (the Budhha Todaiji and Himeji Castle instead of Osaka Castle). So, fitting a highlight reel of Tokyo in 1 day would be tricky, and a Tokyo day trip is not a common use case online, since most people do it the other way around with Osaka as the 1 day city. But, I decided upon 1 day still, since I knew for sure that I'd save up in the future for Sapporo at some point, and I could do a Tokyo round 2 then. I chose Shibuya as the biggest slot of time, since it had most of the touristy stuff my mom wanted, and likely lots of fun stuff to do. I chose Yanaka since me and my brother grew up on Anime that used that neighborhood style, so I knew I'd love to see something at that scale IRL. And for Kabukicho, it was a spot that would be good to see all of the Yakuza stuff I knew, and seemed like a good spot for food and drinks. Yanaka is obviously the odd one out, but I couldn't think of any other place that I could fit into the Day Trip mindset (other than maybe Akihabara or Ikebukuro, but we already had Osaka's Den Den Town scheduled) So, on how the itinerary as a whole worked for me, it was well! We were tuckered out each day, and sometimes one of us would skip or delay something for some rest time, but I'm happy with how it turned out. To end off, I wanted to elaborate on why I chose to stick so heavily to Osaka, rather than staying in Tokyo another day, and why I did smaller level stuff like Den Den Town and the Osaka Aquarium. Just from a personal perspective, I wanted to support the Kansai area the most, since there's been alot of talk on the tax burden the Expo could bring, so I wanted to contribute to local tourism like the Expo wanted and locals had to deal with. Plus, at least for my opinion post trip, my time is Kansai was easier and friendlier than Kanto to us, atleast subjectively. Perhaps they reworked everything for the Expo, but Itami was way easier than Haneda, and tap to pay worked everywhere in Kansai for us, even for the smaller Nabari/Mie train lines my brother took. \\_\\_\\_\\_\\_\\_ Misc. stuff: \\* Just to mention, since I hear some folks worry about things like this online, I'm fat at 290lb, 6ft, black, and gay, and none of those caused any significant issues or worries for me on my trip. I ended up skipping Doyamacho, so I can't speak much on the gay scene. But past that, my frame fit well enough into most things, with me avoiding stuff that I knew would obviously cause issues like USJ Super Mario World's infamously small seats. Things like Bunraku Theater and Trains worked fine with my height and size. \\* My mom has a tattoo, so for folks who want to go to a Sento/Onsen, Irifune Onsen near Shinsekai worked well and was friendly. I couldn't figure out how to buy soaps but they had generic body wash I could use and rental towels. \\* I originally wanted to go straight from Tokyo to Nara, but I put the Shinsekai stuff in between since there isn't a Shinkansen between Nara and Tokyo directly."}
{"id": "0041", "text": "Had a great time in Kyushu - was not my first time in Japan but first in this region. Already cannot wait to return. Referenced several threads from this subreddit during planning so wanted to pay it forward. \\*= favourites of the trip **Transport:** 1. Bus/train while in Fukuoka - bought the regional Imoca card but realised Suica/Icoca work just as well. 2. Car rental - booked online from Toyota Rent-A-Car. Highly recommended! Seamless booking. Many branches so managed to choose the return shop close to my hotel. Also requested to change rental dates and they replied my email within a day. They provided the ETC card and I paid the amount upon return. **Hotels:** 1. Fukuoka - Lyf, Mitsui garden 2. Kumamoto - Candeo 3. Kurokawa - Yamashinobu\\* **Day 1 (Fukuoka)** * Arrived in AM * Ramen at Hakata Genki Ippai (#1 on Tabelog) - went about 30mins before opening, queued about 30mins. Noodles were thinner than what I expected. Soup was quite thick. I saw a review saying they banned people from taking photos (which was not true lol there was someone next to us vlogging a mukbang) * Teamlabs - booked 1 week prior to the trip. Was not very crowded - I think could have made walk-in reservations then. * Fuk coffee - hojicha latte was nice * Shop at Tenjin underground **Day 2 (Fukuoka)** * Dacomecca bakery - long queues before opening, savoury &gt; sweet breads. Chose takeaway because limited seats * Thrift shopping at daimyo * Pancake at Caf del Sol \\- very fluffy pancakes. Had the strawberry one. Also had to queue lol about 30mins during non peak hour 3+pm **Day 3 (Fukuoka &gt; Kumamoto)** * Got our rental car * Drove to Ogori - Nyoirinji Frog Temple, Pain Nest Bakery (my favourite mentaiko baguette) * Strawberry picking at Fukuda Farm\\* - booked 1 week prior to trip. They had 5 types of strawberries. Very welcoming hosts. Strawberries were absolutely delicious. Also bought back strawberry jam. * Lunch at Kurume Ramen Seiyoken\\* \\- best fried rice I have tasted hands down. Actually planned to go Taiho Ramen but the queue was too long. * Yame central tea plantation - had matcha ice cream atop with amazing views. Also drove to various matcha shops nearby to stock on tea. Known for their gyokuro * Dinner at Katsuretsu Tei Shinshigai \\- tonkatsu was flavourful and fatty. Unlimited rice, soup, and vege. Popular restaurant so took a queue number then went to nearby shopping street. Waited 40+mins **Day 4 (Kumamoto)** * Breakfast at **\\*** \\- seafood don was so fresh. Inhaled the whole thing within 10 mins * Drove to Mt Aso - initially weather was good (and the website wrote that the crater was accessible) but unfortunately it became cloudy when we were driving up. Visibility was about 10-20% so had to be really cautious driving up. I would say to keep plan to go Mt Aso flexible (we subsequently managed to go crater the next day) * Kamishikimi Kumanoimasu Shrine - only managed to walk up halfway due to sudden hail with thunderstorm lol * Ramen at Hinokuni Bunryu \\- reviews recommended the thick tonkotsu soup. Wow it was really thick. Had my favourite noodle size and texture. **Day 5 (Kumamoto &gt; Kurokawa onsen)** * Lunch at Asoji: Tried the local Takanameshi (preserved vegetables with rice) and dago soup. Homely atmosphereworth trying at least once! * Mt Aso (2nd attempt): Weather was finally goodmade it all the way to the crater carpark. It was much colder than expected, so bring a thick jacket. * Takenokuma Caf\\*: Stunning caf with a veranda overlooking rice fields. Great dessert and vibes was 10/10. It was empty when we wenthighly recommended if youre driving. Defo the type of cafe I expect to be popular on social media (seems like a relatively 'hidden gem' for now) * Onsen hopping at Kurokawa Onsen: Got the wooden onsen pass from the tourist info centre. Recommend not driving between onsen spotsparking is usually for hotel guests only. * Stay at Yamashinobu: Though not officially part of Kurokawa Onsen (and thus didnt provide an onsen pass), the experience was magical. Amazing foodopt for the porridge breakfast. Sake tasting by the fireplace and nightly stargazing (8:309:00 PM). Their open-air, indoor, and private onsen are all free to usejust check if the private one is unoccupied. It's a short 35 minute drive from Kurokawa onsen, but we didnt mind since we only stayed one night. **Day 6 (Takachiho &gt; Fukuoka)** * Takachiho gorge boat rental - booked 2 weeks in advance. Please book early! Waiting time for walk in was 4 hours. Very picturesque spot rowing the boat in the gorge. * Amaterasu railway - they did not take reservations. Managed to get tickets and went on next train. Quite cute experience * Amano Iwato shrine **Day 7 (Fukuoka + daytrip to Yanagawa)** * Took the canal boat ride about 1h. The guide sang and gave a rather detailed tour of Yanagawa. Mostly spoke in Japanese. * Lunch at Ganso Motoyoshiya \\- yanagawa is famous for their eel, so had to try it. Even for someone who does not fancy eel, I enjoyed it. Not the cheapest meal though * *Wanted to see wisteria at Great Wisteria of Nakayama - sadly saw recent google reviews that it hasn't bloomed yet so had to skip it.* * Shopping at Tosu premium outlets - managed to snag some good deals on shoes and clothing. Big place with many available parking right beside the mall * Conveyor belt sushi at Honkaku Kaiten Sushi Taiga \\- not cheap for conveyor belt sushi, but the fatty tuna more than made up for it. Each sushi piece was huge so did not need to order many plates **Day 8 (Fukuoka + daytrip to Dazaifu)** * Daytrip to dazaifu - the replacement shrine was crowded with many students (makes sense since it is dedicated to the god of learning haha). Bought a few charms and had umegae mochi. Imo half day suffice * Yatai at Ramen Pyon-Kichi \\- for the experience! **Day 9 (return home\\~)** Did not include kitakyushu, nagasaki, and kagoshima for this trip as did not want to rush our itinerary. Well guess this means I have more reason to visit Kyushu again. Do let me know your recommendations as well for these places!"}
{"id": "0042", "text": "Just got back from Japan and wanted to share a quick highlight: a 3-day trip to Nikko from Tokyo. If youre looking for something outside the city thats scenic, packed with history, and easy to reach, Nikko is a great option. Getting there: I took the Tobu Limited Express from Asakusaabout 2 hours and very comfortable. I had mobile data the whole time using an eSIM (Ubigi), which made navigating and checking train times super convenient. Day 1 Shrines and history: Started with Toshogu Shrine, which is one of the most detailed and ornate shrines Ive ever seen. Its nestled in the forest, so even with other visitors it still felt peaceful. Also visited Futarasan Shrine and Rinnoji Temple, all within walking distance of each other. Stayed at a small ryokan with an onsen that night, which was perfect after a full day of walking. Day 2 Nature day: Took a bus up to Lake Chuzenji and saw Kegon Falls, which were huge and super dramatic with mist from the water. Walked part of the Senjogahara Marshland trailreally quiet and beautiful, with open views of the mountains. For lunch, I tried some local yuba (tofu skin) dishes, which Nikko is known for. Day 3 Easy morning and return to Tokyo: Had a chill morning strolling through some quieter areas, picked up souvenirs, and caught the train back to Tokyo in the afternoon. If youre planning a longer stay in Japan and want to slow things down for a few days, Id definitely recommend adding Nikko to your itinerary. Super easy to reach, relaxing, and totally different from Tokyo. Tips: - Having a reliable data connection (I used an eSIM from Ubigi) helped a lot, especially for bus schedules and offline maps. My friend used Airalo and we found that I had a better connection. My code is 632T6Q3Z if you want 20% off - Get a Nikko Pass (either the World Heritage Area Pass or the All Area Pass) if youre planning to use buses and trains a lotit can save you some cash. - Arrive early at Toshogu Shrine to avoid the biggest crowds. It opens at 8am. - Pack layerseven in spring, it can be chilly up near Lake Chuzenji. - Use a Suica or Pasmo card, but note that some local buses in the mountains only accept cash. - Try to stay overnight if you can. Day trips are possible, but staying overnight really lets you experience the area without rushing."}
{"id": "0043", "text": "Yes, 2024. This is way belated but thought it may still be useful. I tried to stick to highlights/helpful tips, otherwise this would get even longer. **About us:** 2 adults mid-30s, 2 seniors 65+, 1 toddler 2.5Y. Husband is Japanese-Canadian and speaks Japanese, I can speak a little bit and we can both read a menu. Not our first trip, but we re-visited some places that we thought couldn't be missed (Nara, Fushimi Inari) because it was a first for our mothers and toddler. **Stroller?** Yes, happy we brought Ergobaby Metro+. Toddler did nap a few times in it and absolutely came in handy for getting from A to B much faster than a 2.5 year old can walk. Downside is that the exit you need may not be accessible by elevator; sometimes it was easier to just fold it up and carry/walk her up an escalator. Sometimes we took 2 elevators just to go down one floor in a station. It is kind of a heavy stroller at 17lb but it folds easily and is sturdy, having no trouble on uneven surfaces or dirt/gravel paths. I saw a lot of Cybex Libelles and some GB Pockits. **Day 1** - Forwarded our luggage: 2 medium suitcases directly to our Kyoto hotel and 1 large suitcase to the Kuroneko post near our Tokyo airbnb. (They can hold the luggage for you up to 7 days IIRC which was perfect). Cost: 6630. Lots of traveling as we were headed straight to Kyoto; we had a ton of mishaps that made our first day extra rough. JR ticket office agent booked us Narita Express tickets and shinkansen to Kyoto. Unfortunately missed the Nozomi by just a few minutes so we waited for the next one and got seats on an unreserved car. In Kyoto, hugely messed up by coming out of the wrong exit, got lost and took a massive detour walking on an overpass (~20-30min) with luggage and a toddler when it should have only taken about 6-7 minutes. Much regret. **Hotel review: Onyado Nono Kyoto Shichijo:** Protip: from inside Kyoto station, follow the exit signs for Hotel Granvia Kyoto. I picked this for its proximity to Kyoto station to easily get to Nara and Osaka, as well as its extensive breakfast buffet and onsen. Its not a legit hot spring in the sense that the water is brought in from elsewhere (somewhere in Osaka prefecture, apparently) but it was great to soak after a long day of exploring. Breakfast starts at 6am which is great to get an early start to the day since most restaurants/cafes dont open until 10am; my mom is not too familiar with Japanese food so she was able to try a lot of things in a low-pressure environment: tempura, Japanese pickles and soups, sushi rice with ikura, raw scallop, tuna, and salmon, ebi fry, grilled fish, warabi mochi. 6 days of it was kind of overkill though. Unforeseen drawback: I realized we often weren't that hungry by lunchtime - not great if you have a lot of restaurants pinned that you want to try! They have a nightly ramen service 9-11pm with decent ramen (no protein, just menma). Staff service was excellent. Wifi sucked, even our Airalo esims which worked fine everywhere else sucked inside the hotel for some reason. Eta: if you want to be near nightlife, staying in this area is not for you. Maybe more around Gion or Shijo. Kyoto Station area worked best for us for ease of getting around and as a family that stays in after nightfall. -- **Day 2-5 (Kyoto base) notables:** * Kyoto Botanical Garden was an unplanned side adventure and was really nice. Strollers are available to borrow for free. It was a steal at about $5CAD pp (seniors half-price!), not very busy (mostly local old folks), and actually had an amazing playground for kids. Soba for lunch at Minamoto a short walk away from the garden * Osaka Aquarium was a beautiful aquarium, we spent about 2.5h there. We arrived over an hour late to our entry time because we had to manage an allergic reaction my toddler had to something from breakfast. You can change the entry time on your ticket online if theres availability, but not if your scheduled entry time has already passed. Since it was a Thursday, it wasnt busy so we were able to get in right away regardless. * Aoniyoshi train to Nara was nice and very reasonably priced for the experience * Nara and Todaiji are very stroller/wheelchair friendly, Kasuga Taisha has a million stairs and is the opposite * Check online for temple flea market dates, they're a great place to snack and find fun things to buy. We did Toji temple flea on April 21st. Skip the grilled bamboo shoot, it was gimmicky and not worth the wait. * Kura sushi was underwhelming and not worth the hype * Kamechan for delicious okonomiyaki and yakisoba. Tiny, very local shop that I found by accident looking for a different okonomiyaki shop. I ordered takeout in shitty Japanese and the boxes were packed to bursting -- **Day 6 Ogoto-onsen:** I picked this for the proximity to Kyoto because I didn't want to go too out of the way - It's just a 50 min train ride. From Ogoto onsen station, you use a random flip phone hanging on a chain in a phone booth (yes it's hilarious) to call your onsen to pick you up. We stayed at Yumotokan and had a wonderful experience, I wish we had stayed a second night. Very quiet place and mostly Japanese visitors. There are multiple baths including rotenburo and rooftop overlooking Lake Biwa. It rotates between male/female daily. My husband had a morning outdoor bath under a fully blooming large wisteria. -- **Day 7-13 (Tokyo base) notables:** * Stayed at an airbnb in Ikebukuro on the west side. We were Happy with the area and there's lots to see and do. Visit Tobu or Seibu basement floors in the evening to get cheap discounted hot food * Tour bus to Ashikaga/Hitachi Seaside Park (recommend!) We did Ashikaga by train 8 years ago and decided to make it easier on ourselves this time. The obvious drawback is you have to be back on the bus on time so plan accordingly. Ashikaga was stunning but small so our time there was enough. Hitachi Seaside park had nemophilia in full bloom so it was very busy, but it was cloudy that day, so the view wasn't as striking. This place is huge and has lots to see, there's whole side we didn't even get to and we had to hurry back to the bus which was parked very far from the gate. * Toshima Kids Park is a fun playground with a small ride-on train, right by Sunshine City. It's free but you need to make reservations in advance. For a free space, it is immaculately maintained, with 4 or 5 staff including people that would wipe the slide dry due to a brief sprinkle of rain. * Dinner at Aging Beef Shinjuku Sanchome - dinner with my husband's childhood friend, this was his pick and it was a multi course menu. Excellent service and food but so, so much meat * Mutekiya ramen was solid. It had a huge lineup every time we walked by. We dropped by around 11pm and got seated right away. Thick slabs of chashu, would eat again * ETA: I know some people say Team labs Planets is all hype but we enjoyed it. Toddler is potty trained and wore a sunsuit for the water area. A staffer may stop you to confirm your child is not wearing a diaper. The orchid room was one of our favorites but is the worst room for a toddler because it is a combo of their mortal enemies: moving slowly and not touching stuff -- **About allergies:** our toddler is allergic to a couple things, most concerning for our trip was dairy and sesame. A lot of things in Japan have milk in it. Their normal sandwich breads even have milk in it. Soy milk soft serve had milk in it. I asked nyuuseihin haitteimasu ka? (does this contain dairy?) a lot. Chain restaurants such as sukiya, ootoya etc will have corporate websites with allergy information. Some places/packaged foods will also have pictures or wording to highlight allergens, so just remember the applicable kanji for your allergy - ex egg is . There are also cards available online that you can print out to show staff. Kid-friendly foods generally safe for a dairy allergy would be onigiri, dango, soba, udon, warabimochi, daifuku"}
{"id": "0044", "text": "Me (33M) and wife (32F) traveled to Central Japan from 25/3 - 5/4. This is our second time visiting Japan, the first one being in Kansai region (Osaka/Kyoto/Nara) in spring 2024 (you can read that trip report here) **DAY 1 - INUYAMA &gt;&gt; NAKATSUGAWA** * Touched down at Chubu Centrair International Airport at 7.30am. * Took the airport train to Nagoya Station and stored our luggage in coin lockers. Then, we headed to Inuyama Station. * Walked and explored around Honmachi-dori, the main street that leads to Inuyama Castle. There were not a lot of people, and not many shops were opened yet as it was still very early. * Visited Sanko Inari Shrine. Bought a Goshuincho and got my very first Goshuin. * Explored Inuyama Castle. The view from the top of the castle was amazing! * Left the castle and went back to Honmachi-dori. Many shops were already opened. We had an interesting tofu-themed meal at . * Walked to Daishoji and explored the temple grounds. From there, headed towards Inuyamayuen Station and took the train back to Nagoya Station. * Retrieved our luggage and took the JR Shinano bound for Nakatsugawa. * Reached Nakatsugawa Station and checked-in our hotel. Took a few hours nap, as we didn't have a proper sleep throughout our overnight flight. * Woke up feeling much rested. Had a wonderful obanzai dinner at . Step count: 17,560 steps **DAY 2 - NAKASENDO WALK (OCHIAI , MAGOME , TSUMAGO)** * Woke up at 5am on my own and went for a morning walk, exploring Nakatsugawa Town. * Came back to the hotel at 8am and wife was up and ready. Took a bus to Ochiai and started our Nakasendo hike from Ochiai-juku. * After 1h30m, we reached Magome-juku. What a beautiful post-town! We couldn't stop taking pictures! * Explored around a bit and bought some coffee and sandwich for snacking. Then, we departed for Tsumago-juku. * Really lovely countryside vibes along the way. As we're approaching Tsumago, we had goheimochi and knife-cut soba for lunch at Kongoya (it was the absolute BEST soba we've ever had in our lives!) * After 3h10m of trail walking, we reached Tsumago-juku. Spent the next hour exploring around the town. * Supposed to head to Narai-juku after this, unfortunately we missed the bus. The next bus doesn't go well with the train's timing, and we realized that it would be all dark the moment we arrive at Narai. So we scraped the plan. * Continue walking another 45 minutes towards Nagiso Station and took the train back to Nakatsugawa. * Visited the town's Valor Supermarket. Was really surprised how much cheaper everything here is, especially after the evening discount! Loaded up with lots of sashimi, bento and snacks and had a feast back at the hotel. Step count: 45,160 steps **DAY 3 - NAEGI , ENA , IWAMURA , AKECHI** * Woke up at 5am on my own and went for a morning walk. Explored the Nakasendo post town Nakatsugawa-juku and some local residential parks. Tried the infamous strawberry sando from 7-eleven for breakfast. * Came back to the hotel at 8am and wife was up and ready. Took a bus to Naegi and hiked up to Naegi Castle Ruins. The top of the castle ruins offers a splendid view of the whole Nakatsugawa Town! * Descended from the castle ruins and took the bus back to Nakatsugawa Station. Took a short train ride to Ena Station. From there, switched to the Akechi Line and headed towards Iwamura Station. * We had Tonkatsu for lunch at Kawai right outside Iwamura Station. We're normally not a fan of Tonkatsu back at home, but this meal genuinely surprised us! The meat was thick, juicy, tender and deep-fried to perfection! Pairing with the hatcho miso sauce, this was hands down the best Tonkatsu we've ever had! * Explored around Iwamura-cho, a traditional castle town street that leads to Iwamura Castle Ruins. * Spent about 40 minutes hiking uphill. The castle ruins was full of mysterious vibes, it felt as if we were in a Zelda game! We explored the castle ruins and hiked down back to Iwamura-cho. * Took the train to Akechi Station. Wandered around the town's Taisho Village and visited Hachioji Shrine. * Took the Akechi Line back to Ena Station. Had an AMAZING udon meal for dinner at Muginawa. Wife was a big fan of Kitsune Udon, and she told me the ones here were the best she's ever eaten! * A short train ride back to Nakatsugawa and called it a day. Step count: 32,846 steps **DAY 4 - GERO &gt;&gt; TAKAYAMA** * Woke up at 6am on my own and went for a morning walk. It rained throughout the night, and a huge, beautiful rainbow formed above the sky as the sun came out. Spent a good full 20 minutes at a spot just taking pictures of the rainbow until it eventually fades away. * Came back to the hotel at 9.30am and wife was up and ready. Checked-out our hotel and stored our luggage there. * Walked to Nakatsugawa-juku and did some souvenirs shopping there. Tried the local specialty chestnut sweets - Kurikinton. * Had delicious cold soba for lunch at Masa Soba Restaurant. * Went back to our hotel and retrieve our luggage. Caught the 12.15pm bus bound for Kashimo, and from there switched buses and arrived Gero at 2pm. * Stored luggages at Gero Station and started exploring the onsen town. * Visited Onsenji and the Frog Shrine. Tried some foot baths along the way as well. * At 5pm, we retrived our luggage and took the local train towards Takayama Station. * Checked-in our hotel in Takayama, had Chinese food for dinner at . Step count: 21,409 steps **DAY 5 - TAKAYAMA** * Woke up at 5am on my own and went for a morning walk. Wandered around the west side of Takayama and did a short hike up to Takayama Sky Park. * Reached back to the hotel by 9am and wife was up and ready. Walked to Miyagawa Morning Market and explored around. Had some wonderful cream puffs and coffee for breakfast at Coffee Don. * Continue towards Sakurayama Hachimagu Shrine. Got a goshuin here! * Finished the entire Higashiyama Walking Course, and ended up at Shiroyama Park near Takayama Castle Ruins. * Had a really wholesome Hida beef bowl and Hida beef curry rice for lunch at an unknown restaurant at Shiroyama Park (couldn't even find it on Google Maps) * Walked towards Sanmachi-suji and explored the old townscapes of Takayama. * Feeling a little tired, we headed back and rest at the hotel. Had our very first onsen experience in the hotel onsen. * Headed out after sunset and had a really fantastic sushi meal for dinner at Matsuki Sushi. Step count: 32,380 steps **DAY 6 - HIDA NO SATO , HIDA-FURUKAWA** * No morning walks for today. Left the hotel around 7.30am and went to Miyagawa Morning Market for some souvenir shopping. * From there, we took a 40 minutes walk to Hida no Sato. Stopped by Boulangerie Noboriya along the way and had some really good bread for breakfast. * Suddenly, it started snowing heavily! This was our first time experiencing snow! It was truly a magical moment! * Reached Hida no Sato and bought our entrance tickets. Wandered around the open air museum. * Finished exploring everything by noon, we took a 10min bus back to Takayama Station. From there, switched to a train and headed to Hida-Furukawa. * As a fan of the anime movie Kimi no Nawa (Your Name), we looked around and hunted for spots around Hida-Furukawa Station that were featured in the show. * Had Japanese hamburger steak for lunch at Kinkonkan. * Visited Keta Wakamiya Shrine. Got a goshuin here! * Walked back to Hida-Furukawa Station and explored Setogawa and Shirakabe Dozou Street. Unfortunately, since it was still not spring time in the region, there were no carps swimming in the canal. * Continued exploring around the town. As evening approaches, we took the train back to Takayama Station. * Hearty bowl of Takayama Ramen for dinner at Kajibashi. Step count: 28,311 steps **DAY 7 - TAKAYAMA &gt;&gt; NAGOYA** * Woke up at 5am on my own and went for a morning walk. Visited the virtually empty Sanmachi-suji, really different vibes compared to when it was packed with tourists. Explored towards south and visited Hie Shrine. * Walked back to the hotel by 8.30am. Wife was up and ready and we checked-out of our hotel. Bought some onigiri for breakfast and caught the JR Hida train bound for Nagoya. * Reached Nagoya by noon and stored our luggage at our hotel. * Explored around Sakae, visited the Mirai Tower and Hisaya-odori park. Bought a pair of Onitsuka Tiger shoes here. * Wandered around Osu area and dropped by Osu Kannon Temple. Tried the local specialty Hatcho Miso udon stew at Nikomi no Takara (It was SO GOOD!) * Headed north and visited Nagoya Castle. It was just in time for the full bloom, cherry blossoms were everywhere! * Took a bus back to Nagoya Station and switched to a train bound for Iwakura Station. Joined the locals in the Iwakura cherry blossom festival as we walked along the Gojo River. * Headed back To Sakae and had hot kishimen for dinner at Udon Mentsurubi. Step count: 36,206 steps **DAY 8 - NISHIO , TOYOKAWA , OKAZAKI** * No morning walks today. Left the hotel by 7.30am and took a train to Atsuta Jingu. Explored the shrine grounds and got a goshuin there. * Walked to Jingu-mae Station and took a train to Nishio. Explored Nishio Park and had some delicious green tea at the tea house in the park while viewing Nishio Castle. * One of our most anticipated meals in this trip, we had Chameshi Unagama for lunch at Uotora. Basically it was unagi cooked with matcha tea leaves, a cuisine only found in Nishio. And boy, it was truly delicious! The meal absolutely exceeded our expectations! * Just a short walk away from Uotora was Aikei Cafe, where we had Matcha Tiramisu Parfait for desserts. * Did some matcha souvenirs shopping at Syoukakuen Sabousayu, and walked to Nishioguchi Station. Took a train headed towards Toyokawa. * Visited the Toyokawa Inari Shrine. Unlike other Inari Shrines, this one does not have many Torii Gates. Instead, loads of fox statues can be found around the shrine grounds. Really interesting place! We also bought some delicious Inari sushi for snacking. * Originally, we were supposed to go to Toyohashi to try their specialty curry udon for dinner. However, since we were still really full from all the food we had for lunch, we decided to skip it and headed straight for Okazaki. * Reaching Nishi-Okazaki Station, we bought some Hatcho Miso fried chicken at Abarenbou Chicken (yummy!) * Walked towards Okazaki Castle, and was immediately greeted by a huge Cherry Blossom Festival by the castle park. Tons of food stalls were set up, the whole place was crowded! We sat at the banks of the Oto River under the rows of sakura trees while observing the locals doing their thing in the festival. It was really wholesome! * Took the train back to Nagoya. Had some simple onigiri from Lawson for dinner. Step count: 31,094 steps **DAY 9 - OGAKI , YORO** * Woke up at 5am on my own and went for a morning walk. Explored the Chikusan Ward area and visited Nittaiji, Shiroyama Hachimangu Shrine and saw the big green Buddha statue at Toganji, Motoyama. * Reached back the hotel at 9am and wife was up and ready. Took the Tokaido Line to Ogaki Station. * Tried the Ogaki specialty Mizu Manju at Kinchoen Sohonke. * Headed towards Ogaki Park and visited Ogaki Castle. * Explored the canals nearby and took some really pretty photos with all the cherry blossoms around the waters. * Visited Midori Bridge and a several places around the area that were featured in the anime movie Koe no Katachi (A Silent Voice) * Walked to Nishi-Ogaki Station and took the Yoro Railway towards Yoro Station. * Explored Yoro Town a little and made our way to Site of Reversible Destiny, a really bizarre and weird theme park. * Chilled and relax at Yoro Park while snacking on some bread. * Wanted to proceed to Yoro Falls, but wife was feeling tired already, so we scraped that plan. * Took the train back to Nagoya and had a really fantastic Hitsumabushi unagi meal for dinner at Ibashou. Step count: 32,623 steps **DAY 10 - SOLO WALKING (Gifu Station &gt;&gt; Nagoya Station)** * Today was the day my wife and I had our own seperate me days. She chose to chill and shop around Nagoya, while I decided to walk from Gifu Station back to Nagoya Station (I'm an avid long distance walker) * Woke up at 5am and took a train towards Gifu Station. * Started walking north towards Gifu Park. Visited several shrines along the way (Kogane Shrine, Kashimori Shrine, Inaba Shrine) * Reached Gifu Park and took a short rest there. Admired the Gifu Castle above the hilltops from afar. * Walked all the way back to Gifu Station (dropped by Inaba Shrine again for a goshuin) Continued walking south, exploring many residential areas along the way. * Crossed the Kiso River via Kisogawa Bridge and entered Aichi Prefecture. * Reached Ichinomiya. Visited Masumida Shrine and got a goshuin there. * Continued walking and passed Inazawa, Kiyosu. Paid Kiyosu Castle a short visit on the go. * Crossed the Shonai River and finally entered the Nagoya region. * Reached Nagoya Station at 8.20pm. Reunited with my wife who was already waiting there for me as I arrive. Had a hearty bowl of curry udon for dinner at Udon Nishiki. Step count: 75,328 steps **DAY 11 - NAKASENDO WALK (TARUI , SEKIGAHARA , IMASU , KASHIWABARA)** * No morning walks today. Woke up at 8am and took the Tokaido Line towards Tarui Station. * Explored Tarui town, visited the Nakasendo post town Tarui-juku. * Visited Aikawa Mizube Park, where hundreds of Koinobori can be seen flying around the whole place. Together with multiple rows of full bloom Cherry Blossoms along the Ai River, it was an extremely beautiful sight! * Headed to a major shrine nearby, Nangu Shrine. Not forgetting my goshuin here, of course! * Took a train to Sekigahara Station and had the BEST Unagi don in our lives at Uoshige! * Wandered around Sekigahara and explored the historical Sekigahara Battlefield. * Visited Wakamiya Hachiman Shrine, an interesting shrine where there's a train crossing after the Torii gate. We waited there for a few minutes and took a very nice video of a passing train at the Torii gate. * Continued walking west via the Nakasendo and reached the post-town, Imasu-juku. There's nothing much to see around here, as very little of the traditional post town was preserved. * Continued walking on the Nakasendo and arrived at the next post town, Kashiwabara-juku. * Wanted to continue our journey towards Samegai-juku, but the sky is getting dark. We decided to end our journey here and took the train back to Nagoya. * Had ramen for dinner at Nagoya Station. Went back to the hotel and started packing our luggages. Step count: 37,994 steps **DAY 12 - FLIGHT BACK HOME** * Checked-out our hotel at 7am. Took the uSky train to Chubu Centrair International Airport. * After checking-in our luggages for the flight, we spent the next 1.5 hours exploring the airport. Visited a really cool skydeck where you can see planes landing and taking off. Many photographers were seen camping there, ready to take their shots of the planes. * Had bukkake udon in an airport restaurant as our last meal in this trip. * Flight back home at 11am. Step count: 9,679 steps **TRAVEL TIPS** 1. IC Cards are not usable for public transports in countrysides like Kiso Valley and Takayama. If a bus doesnt take IC cards, there will be a machine by the door for you to take a numbered ticket as you board the bus. You'll see a fare box beside the driver for collecting fares and tickets. There will also be a slot where you can put in 1000 yen notes and itll make coin change for you, so you can pay with the exact fare amount. So, just make sure to have some spare 1000 notes and you won't have any problems. 2. In rural regions, it is very important to know that trains and buses don't come very frequent like the ones in cities. Some even come once every few hours. Do check Google Maps for the bus/train time table and plan your itinerary around it. 3. Take advantage of the supermarkets around. They have more variety and generally cheaper goods compared to konbini stores. If you visit late evening onwards, they will have more discounts! 4. I would like to share the list of doable day trips and attractions spots which I've researched and compiled, but ultimately did not make it into my final trip itinerary. I will list them by my 3 accommodation locations: \\- From Nakatsugawa: * Tsukechi Gorge * Ryujin Falls * Enakyo Pleasure Boat Cruise * Nezame no toko Gorge, Agematsu * Atera Valley * Hiking from Yabuhara to Narai * Narai-juku * Lake Suwa Day Trip * Matsumoto Day Trip + Daio Wasabi Farm \\- From Takayama * Shirakawago * Shinhokata Ropeway * Kamikochi * Hirayu Onsen * Hida Great Limestone Cave * Gandate Park * Rail Mountain Bike Gattan Go!! \\- From Nagoya * Legoland * Ghibli Park * Toyota Commemorative Museum of Industry and Technology * Higashiyama Sky Tower * SCMaglev and Railway Park * Meiji-mura Museum * Nabana no Sato &amp; Nagashima Spa Land * Gifu Cormorant Fishing on the Nagara River * Tokoname (half day trip) * Gamagori + Toyohashi Day Trip * Gujo Hachiman Day Trip * Ise Jingu Day Trip * Hikone &amp; Nagahama/Omihachiman Day Trip + Chikubu Island **FINAL THOUGHTS** A completely different trip compared to our Kansai travel last year. Nonetheless, Central Japan has been really, really wonderful, and we absolutely had the time of our lives! There is only such we could do in a mere 12 days trip, and we didn't get to cover the northern regions such as Kanazawa, Fukui and Toyama. Well, that just gives us more reason to go back again! We are already missing Japan dearly, looking forward to our next trip back here in the near future. Till next time!"}
{"id": "0045", "text": "After hearing about a future solo trip to Japan I had booked flights for, my parents (*namely mother*) wanted to join in. I begrudgingly agreed and was then tasked with making the whole itinerary. In trying to probe my parents for info, my mom wanted nature, to spend as little time in Tokyo as possible with a go-go-go itinerary, and to eat from the supermarkets almost every day when I said that most meals being &lt;$10 USD was too expensive for her. My dad likes samurai and to just take it easy. I am more go than slow, mostly interested in food, and like anime. A train wreck of clashing ideals, if you havent picked it up. The short 8 days is due to flights from MSP to HND going down to only $890 nonstop!! Ive never seen prices that low (usually $1,000-1,500 nonstop), so my parents pushed to make this trip happen. **Day 0**: Landing in Haneda (HND) and using the QR codes went well! Next time Im having my parents do their electronic forms on their own devices instead so Im not holding my iPad to scan 3 QR codes. I never use my cell phone (I use TracFone and literally 1GB of data every 3 months), so a Pocket WiFi was the clear choice so my parents and I could stay connected as we travel as a unit (using &lt;3GB data/day except one day where we used 4GB). Picking the PocketWiFi from NinjaWiFi went well, our Welcome Suica cards there + JR Rail Passes from the JR Travel Center too! Their line was shorter than the kiosk. Currency was exchanged at the airport. Off to the monorail we went, with a smooth transfer to the JK Line to get to our hotel: JR Super Ueno Iriya Exit. It was a &lt;5 min walk from that exit of Ueno Station and ~10 minute walk from all Ticket Gates to Hotel. I took a quick walk to Ueno Park to snag a Shrine Stamp Book, but it was too close to 5pm and was closed at the shrine I went to. We had a hearty FamilyMart supper since the one nearby had seats, before walking around the supermarkets in/near Ueno Station. **Day 1**: Our hotel had free breakfast starting at 6:30 or 7. We walked around Ameyoko which is dead in the early morning by the way before heading back into Ueno Park. There were a few sakura trees in bloom at the south side, and I got my shrine stamp book. Train to Shimbashi later, we went up to a building with fancy restaurants on the 46th+ floor. There, we got free views outside before heading downstairs into the small Oi Ocha museum. We took a bus to the Kill Bill restaurant for lunch, having decently valued set meals while my dad marveled at seeing a setting from a movie we watched earlier this year. One more bus takes us to Azabudai Hills for our time slot at Teamlab Borderless (reserved prior) which was cool! In lieu of the full senses of Planets, you get exhibits which transcend rooms (my favorite was the waterfall and fish tank where your drawing becomes a fish). We walk to see Tokyo Tower and Hie Shrine. Supper has us at Iwashiya around 5pm or earlier? It was nearly dead empty and I had a good udon there! My dad got a tempura egg since neither of my parents were hungry. Afterwards, we ride all the way to Yokohama to stay at a capsule hotel (Yokohama Capsule+) before waking up early tomorrow. 17.3K steps **Day 2**: By this point of the trip and until flying back, my lips were quite dry and were regularly bleeding. I drank some water and tea everyday, but didnt have clutch vending machine drinks as much as maybe what was required for hydration. Our JR Rail Passes we reserved began today. From another redditor, we found out that there was a bookable tour of Yokohamas fish market which was a chilly time (and we were the only 3 on the tour that day). Due to bad weather earlier in the week, there were not as many fish, but we still got to see sea butterflies, tuna, their deep freezers, and more. A train back to Shinjuku allows us to buy our Hakone Free Passes for tomorrow before heading to a perfectly affordable lunch w/ a view of Mt. Fuji at the Tokyo Metropolitan Government Building! We rested at our hotel for the remainder of the day. Parents walked around the hotel while I went to a sento nearby. 22k steps. **Day 3**: Todays all about Hakone, with Amazake Chaya leading the snowy day. It hailed briefly, but it didnt stop us from waiting in line to take pictures at the Hakone Shrine on the lake. 7-Eleven lunch. We pretty much did the Hakone Course clockwise, making sure to enjoy some black eggs at Owakudani. We also relaxed at Hakone Yuryo, where the outdoor baths with the light snow/slush was perfect for me! FamilyMart supper to end the day. 16k steps. **Day 4**: An early Shinkansen takes us to Sendai, with the Earthquake Heritage Arahama Elementary School being our first stop reminding us of how devastating nature can be. We had gyutan (beef tongue) at Gyutan Tsukasa Sendai East Exit with a short wait in line before enjoying a Zunda Shake (and buying Zunda Shake KitKats?!) inside Sendai Station. We took a bus to a couple of Date Masamune things, but decided not to climb all those steps and head back to Tokyo early. We stop at the Daimaru Supermarket where I got 60% off on a singular white strawberry, a steal! Dad &amp; I had Oysters, Sashimi, &amp; Sake @ Uo Kusa for supper before eating our Half Priced Supermarket Haul (Hairy Crab, Sushi, Unagi) for Supper in our hotel room. 16k steps. **Day 5**: We take a few trains to Mt. Takao before a bus to the Kosegawa Plum Grove!! Only open 2 weeks of the year, its filled with blooming plum trees, filling the entire grove with the smell of plum (wine). A truly memorable experience if you are in Japan the first half of March. There was also a single guy at the top of the grove selling what appeared to be homemade Sakura mochi and other treats! Our family spent about 2000 on treats which were a delight! We went back and through to the base of Mt. Takao. My dad has a bad knee so we didnt hike up the mountain (or pay to take the cable car up it), so we explored: eating cremia ice cream, the 599 Takao Museum, and taking a break. Where? Keio Takaosan Onsen Gokurakuyu! While it can be tricky to get to (nevermind a secret tunnel that's in the station), it's cozy and worth the visit thanks to its variety of baths. We go over to Eco Town, where I got some souvenir items for cheap (although Hard Off was partially closed). Then we had supper at Sushi-ro, which had a Haikyuu collab going on! I had a lot, plus some Suntory Sui gin, so something poisoned the water hole... **Day 6**: We were supposed to go to Kanazawa, but due to something from Sushi-ro(?), I got food poisoning. I could not eat anything the whole day. I threw up my breakfast on the Shinkansen, and then threw up water in round 2. I was eventually able to keep water and hot tea down the whole day. Tragedy doesnt end, though, and my dad lost his iPad on the train when we were turning around @ Itoigawa. To retrieve it, we take the *next* train forward to Kanazawa (I had enough energy to snag an eki stamp). Then we took the next train back to Ueno (losing 2-3 hours in the process). I spent the rest of the day resting in the hotel room while my parents walked around Ueno Station A total loss of a day. **Day 7**: With my appetite returning, we head into Tsukiji Outer Market to buy cheap packaged scallops. Next is Ginza to walk through the UniQlo flagship store (no purchases made) before eating a cozy cheap beef bowl at the Yurakucho Yoshinoya for lunch. We Yamanote Line over to Shibuya Crossing before going back to the Tokyo National Museum (which my mother sat out for). I take a solo walk to Ocachimachi: found the canned drink with lemon slice &amp; a milk vending machine! **Day 8**: The last day! We go to Asakusa for walking &amp; buying. In HND, we go to 7-Eleven to clean out our Welcome Suica cards. A string of curses hit: Flight delay &amp; my mom forgot her backpack (jacket, thermos, iPad Mini cable), a minor loss but still a mood killer. We were unable to get it back before our flight back to USA left. So, what have we learned? My mother thinks this was the worst family vacation we went on &amp; that Japan was too expensive (food* + transportation + hotel). My dad thinks that it was alright (mostly dragged down by mom). I think the most important takeaways are: * DRINK WATER / STAY HYDRATED * Double check your belongings, always * Sometimes we couldnt sit together in a row of 3, so beware and be fast to get a non-reserved seat on the Shinkansen. * The hot drinks are clutch for feeling better (I loved the honey lemon tea personally) * You can get a green Suica card in other train stations by looking for Commuter Pass (at least in Ueno) to be listed at an electronic kiosk. The trip could have gone better, but given everything that I had to plan for and deal with, it was still a great time for me! -v-"}
{"id": "0046", "text": "# Some background Just recently came back from my trip this February and early March and wanted to share my experience. A lot of these places I've already visited from previous trip but I wanted to come back since I wanted to re-experience it (partly because I had bad luck with weather or just didn't have enough time previously). I chose to land in Kansai Airport since I felt that southern Japan, specifically the areas around the Setouchi has the type of places I wanted to go to, not to mention the JR passes from JR West are such good deals. I also like doing impromptu trips (which I did a lot in this trip) which the JR West passses helped in saving me money since I can hop on any trains. I specifically chose the Kansai Wide Area Pass (because i planned to do an overnight trip to Nachikatsuura) and also the Setouchi Area Pass which I activated on a later date. Also wanted to mention that this trip is photography focused so I didn't do a lot of activities, mainly sightseeing. # Rundown of each day **Day 1: Arrival in KIX, stay in Kyoto** * Arrived in KIX at 13:00, knew that immigration might take a while so I already prepared the customs declaration and also raced so I lined up first. cleared immigration in 20 minutes. Went to the airport station to claim both my JR west passes and also bought a haruka ticket to Kyoto station. Withdrew some money and recharged my icoca that I already have from my previous trip. departed to kyoto Arrived at 15:00, checked in to my hostel (Wise Owl Hostel Kyoto). At 16:00, I went out to Gojo Station and walked towards Kamo River to take some sunset photos and then continued on the Keihan Main Line to Demachiyanagi Station to spent the rest of blue hour in the Kamo river delta. Ate dinner at Kura Sushi Plus **Day 2: Jonangu Shrine and Fushimi Inari** * Woke up at 04:00, went to a nearby family mart for breakfast at 05:00. After that I walked around the Kamo river again to take some sunrise photos, starting from the river delta this time and walking down. After some thinking, I decided visiting Jonagu Shrine that day since I saw on their website that the plum blossom was beginning to bloom. I arrived in Takeda station, but without going too much into it, I had to backtrack to Kuinabachi station because of the station toilet. I just decided that I will walk to Jonangu shrine from Kuinabachi station which took 40 minutes, but an unexpectedly pleasant detour and took some great photos along. Unfortunately when I arrived, the plum blossoms wasnt blooming yet, only budding, so I decided to not go into the garden and just come back at a later date. Went back to the hotel at 11:00 and spent some time relaxing and editing my photos for around two hours and then ate at CoCo Ichiban for lunch near gojo station and did some thinking on where to go next while I was there and decided to go to Fushimi Inari for sunset. At the beginning of the 2nd loop, I saw a dirt path which took you to the summit also, there was a really beautiful bamboo forest with no one else there and some detachments of the fushimi inari shrine along the way. Spent the rest of the time waiting for the sunset at the crossroads and then I went back down. Ate at the Yoshinoya near Kyoto station for dinner. **Day 3: Kumano Nachi Taisha, Nachikatsuura** * Started the day at 06:40 to catch the Ltd.Exp Kuroshio to Nachikatsuura and arrived at 11:40 and dropped of my backpack at the hostel (WhyKumano). Took the bus to Kumano Nachi Taisha and arrived at 13:00. The weather changed drastically when I went there, along the way it was clear but then when I arrived it quickly turned into snowing for like half and hour or so, and then immediately when back to clear sunny weather which was really cool to see, and walking around the temple complex was really enjoyable. Went back down to Nachi Station at 15:30 to explore the beach and nearby port and took some photos. The beach was so clean and honestly if it wasn't for the temperature I would've probably taken a dip lol. Even though it was mid-late winter, it still feels like summer. After that I decided to go back to my hotel but along the way, I saw the sun was setting really nice, so I took another detour and went to see the eastern part of Katsuura, near Bentenjima. I went to get dinner at Lawson and I met two people from my home country. The first person was a solo traveler traveling first time to japan and the other lives and works at Katsuura and she just happened to met him by chance there and helped him go around Katsuura. Since our itinerary sort of lined up for the next 3 days, we decided to go together starting the next day. Unfortunately the other one couldn't come of course since she works at Katsuura. **Day 4: Back to Kyoto: Kiyomizudera, and Fushimi Inari (this time at night)** * Walked around the port and town around morning and then I met up with my new found friend at the station and we took the Ltd.Exp Kuroshio back to Osaka station at 08:40. We had a pleasant conversation on the train and got to know each other a bit more. Arrived at Osaka station at 13:00 and continued on to Kyoto station where we ate Yoshinoya. We split up to check in to each others hotel and met up again at 16:00 near Kiyomizu-dera to watch the sunset. Unfortunately it started snowing so we didn't get a good view but since he wanted to also go to Fushimi Inari, we decided to go to fushimi inari at night and hiked up at night. It was a pretty unique experience. **Day 5: Kurama-dera and Kifunejinja** * We met up and started at 10:00 in Kyoto station and it was also snowing. As we went up higher to the mountains, the snowfall kept getting thicker and the snow actually piled up on the ground. We arrived at Kibuneguchi station and walked to the entrance of Kurama-dera where we had lunch at a local restaurant. After that we hiked up to Kurama-dera where the weather, like in Kumano Nachi Taisha, constantly changed from clear sunny skies, to snow storm in half an hour intervals. Again, really cool to see. We finished the trail and arrived at Kifunejinja at around 14:30 where we explored the village and took some photos while he went to get the goshuin stamps at Kifunejinja. We walked back down to Kibuneguchi and arrived back at Demachiyanagi Station at 16:00. WE walked along the Kamo River for sunset and ate at CoCo Ichiban for dinner **Day 6: Jonangu shrine attempt 2 and Nara** * Met up at Kyoto station at 10:00 and went to Jonangu to see the plum blossoms, but when we arrived there, only a couple of trees have bloomed so after a bit of disappointment, we decided to continue on to Nara to go to the deer park. Arrived at Nara Station at 12:00 had lunch at Sukiya before continuing on to the deer park. We bought some crackers and just enjoyed walking around and feeding the deers in the deer park. We also hiked up Wakakusayama Hill which took about 40 minutes. The main way was closed so we had to take the side path which takes you through an ancient forest which has some great scenery, but the view was worth it and there was also still a couple of deers on top which we also fed. After that we walked down to Nara Station just before sunset and arrived at Kyoto Station at 06:30 where we said goodbye and split up since I was going to continue further down south. **Day 7**: **Tomonoura, Imabari** * Brought my suitcase to Yamato Transport and sent my luggage to Hiroshima. Took a shinkansen to Fukuyama station since I decided I wanted to go to Tomonoura on that day since the weather forecast isn't looking great for the rest of my trip. Arrived in Fukuyama Station at 12:30 and ate lunch near the station. At 14:00, I took the bus to Tomonoura and spent 3 hours there. Had a fun time just exploring the town not to mention the weather was perfect. After that I went back to Fukuyama station at 16:30, bought a McDonalds and took a 5 hour train to Imabari station and then checked in at the hotel. **Day 8: Shimonada Station** * My original plan for day 8 was to go to Kanon-ji and hike up to Takayajinja, but the weather, even though sunny, was really foggy for some reason and I woke up too late for the trip to be possible, so I decided to go to Matsuyama and then continue on to Shimonada station at like 13:00 and arrived at 14:00. The station itself is really cute but since it was foggy, the weather kinda disappointed me, and because of the timing of the trains, I had to spend 3 hours there, but I still had fun just exploring the places nearby and I spent a good 40 minutes just in a nearby pier sitting around and listening to podcasts. But if you do just want to visit the station, I would recommend taking the train that departs at 15:37 so you dont have to wait as long as me. Got back at Imabari at 20:00. Unfortunately after Day 8, the weather was just bad for the rest of my trip. I was prepared that there will be a couple of rainy days but I honestly didn't expect it to rain for like 6 days straight so from a photography point of view, it was a real disappointment of this trip and I barely took any photos after this day. **Day 9: Shimanami Kaido Pt 1** * I went to Imabari Station to pick up the bike I reserved from Giant Store and I started at around 10:00. My pace was faster than average and I had hotel in Ikuchi Island which is like 50km away so wasn't worried about being too late. I originally planned to do loops around some island and taking some photos, but because of the rain my mood just soured and I decided to just go straight to the hotel (Cycle House Shiokaze). I did however did the Kirosan Observatory hill climb which was 7-9% gradient for like 5 or 6 km which was a bit brutal but doable for me at least, might not be for beginners though. I took a lunch break in Cyclist Sanctuary Omishima and then continued on to Ikuchi Island and arrived at 15:30. I was planning to explore the town a bit but again because of the weather I just crashed out and got some sleep for next day. **Day 10: Shimanami Kaido Pt 2, Onomichi** * Started my day at 09:00 and i had around 20-30 km left to Onomichi. Again I just cycled straight to Onomichi because of the weather but I honestly still enjoyed the cycling a lot even with the rain. There was still some nice views here and there but I just enjoy cycling in general so milage might vary. I arrived at Onomichi at 11:00 and dropped of my bike and ate lunch at Onomichi U2. They had a salad buffet menu and it was a really nice restaurant. I had their pasta for the day it was the best food I had up till then (granted I only visited random local restaurants and also ate at chain restaurants like CoCo Ichi and Yoshinoya most of the day). The weather after I finished lunch suddenly became clear so I decided to drop my backpack at a nearby locker and just explored Onomichi. After the rain, it was so nice to get a break and actually have nice weather. I stumbled across some temples a long the way and also some plum blossoms that was actually blooming this time and then I continued up to Senkoji Park where I just enjoyed the view for a while and ate some ice cream. Walked down to the port just before sunset and then I continued on with the train to Hiroshima and checked in at the Hostel (WeBase Hiroshima). I ate at a Sukiya again for dinner. **Day 11: Hiroshima Peace Park** * The weather was really bad again, it was just overcast all day and some rain, so I just chilled at my hostel to take a break after all the activity from the past week and also cycling and then I continued to the peace park museum at 14:00. I didn't expect to enjoy the museum a lot and I ended up spending 2.5 hours inside and it was the only place I actually bought souvenirs since I love that they use the origami paper cranes as their symbol and the story behind it. Finally I went to a restaurant that I actually wanted to go which was an Okonomiyaki restaurant called Nagataya. Waited like 40 minutes for a seat but it was worth it and really enjoyed the food. **Day 12: Miyajima** * Just like the day before, the weather was really bad and I went to Miyajima after lunch and I just walked around the island and took some photos and also relaxed at a cafe at the island. Spent around 3 hours on the island. I would've probably waited for the sunset if it was clear but yeah, the weather was just bad and I just had no mood for taking photos in bad weather. I decided to go to a nearby Animate after getting back to Hiroshima to check out some anime stuff and end my day there. **Day 13 &amp; 14: Osaka** * Again because of the bad weather I'll just pack it into one because I didn't do much honestly. I basically went back to Osaka on day 13 and I spent the rest of the day shopping for my family because they had some stuff they want me to bring back and also bought some stuff for myself aswell. I always go to B-side label whenever I go to Japan to get some stickers and also did some clothes shopping in Shinsaibashi. On day 14 I went to Umeda to check out Yodobashi camera and roam around the place before ending in Dotonbori at night to spend and just roam around again. **Day 15: Going back home** * My flight was at 15:00 and I checked out of the hotel at 10:30. Took the Nankai Limited express and arrived just a little early for check in. Everything went smoothly and security check and immigration was really fast, departed on time. # Summary and Highlights **What I loved**: Honestly Nachikatsuura was unexpectedly pleasant. It was quiet, serene, and the beaches reminded me of summer (my favourite time in Japan) even though it was the middle of winter. Meeting a new friend there made it special. That 6 hour window of sunshine in Onomichi honestly made my day after the rain and walking around the hills of Onomichi was so nice. There's also a lot of temples dotted along the hills so if you like finding temples, this might be the place for you. Going to Kurama-dera with the snow fall and also pockets of sunshine was really nice. I also didn't feel cold at all when I went there, it was quite warm actually. **What I disliked**: THE RAIN ARRRRHGHHHHH bro I hate rains in the winter so much why do they last for weeks on end this is why I hate winter. I couldn't take any photos after Onomichi and I basically had no energy after that. I still did the main places that I wanted to go but what I enjoyed the most about my trips is just walking around and enjoying the scenery but the rain had to ruin that part. Shimonada Station wasn't exactly bad, but it was underwhelming, at least in the weather I went at. If it was summer it would probably be better, also the timing where I had to wait 3 hours for the train back wasn't exactly optimal and I could time it better with the sunset. I probably would've cylcled here instead of taking the train. **Summary**: Honestly the trip went as well as it could with the weather I had. Having the flexible itinerary also made it more enjoyable. I didn't expect to do it with someone else but I think having a friend going with you made me able to enjoy the place as it is more than just focusing on taking as many photos as possible. I would probably say that this itinerary would probably be better if I have done it in July. I know people hate the summer heat, but scenery wise, I love summer in Japan. I probably have to redo the Shikoku part of my itinerary since I didn't get the chance to revisit Kanonji and Kotohira. I also never travelled the south part of shikoku like Kochi, so I'm already planning to do so in the future, this time I'll probably bring my own bike."}
{"id": "0047", "text": "I recently spent about 5 nights in the Kushiro area of Eastern Hokkaido. I really enjoyed myself, and here is a brief Trip Report. Day 1 I flew into Kushiro Airport in the morning, and took the Airport Limo Bus to Akanko Onsen. I had pre booked my bus ticket online, and just needed to show the PDF copy of the ticket. The bus service meets most flights into Kushiro Airport, and will bring you to the various hotels and ryokans in Akanko Onsen. Upon arriving at my ryokan, I left my bags with them, and proceeded to explore on foot, even though it was snowing lightly . Got to the Ainu Kotan at the edge of town, which was mainly a collection of souvenir shops and restaurants selling Ainu cuisine. Bought some souvenirs and then had lunch in one of the restaurants. Had venison rice bowl, which was just okay. Walked back towards my ryokan, and walked into the shops along the way. By the time I got to my ryokan, Akan Tsuruga Besso Hinanoza, the room was ready. Did my guest registration, and was escorted to my lovely room, which included an in-room onsen bath. The room was definitely top-tier for a ryokan, and had more amenities than I could ask for. In the common area, the ryokan had a foot spa, a reading room, a shop, a bar, and a coffee lounge. The also had a communal baths for male and female guests, that were rotated according to timing. Dinner was at the second floor restaurant, and each guest room had a private room to dine in. Food was fabulous, as would be expected of a top-tier ryokan. Chose to have an early dinner, because I knew that there were fireworks over Lake Akan at 8 pm. Finished dinner, relaxed in my room, and waited for the fireworks to start. After the fireworks, I went down to the bar for a couple of drinks, before I retired to my room for another soak in the onsen bath before I slept. Day 2 After the wonderful ryokan breakfast, I packed up and checked out. The snow was heavy on Day 2, so much so that there was hardly any view from my ryokan room before checkout. The bus to Kushiro calls at the ryokan, before heading to the Akanko Bus Center, where we were asked to disembark to buy our tickets for Kushiro. Snow was heavy as we left Akanko, but started to clear when the bus got to Akan Tanch no Sato. Lots of travellers disembarked to see the red-crowned cranes, but I wanted to go all the way to Kushiro. Got to Kushiro Station, and put my luggage at my new hotel, the Hotel Route Inn Kushiro Ekimae, conveniently located just across from both Kushiro Station and the Bus Station. Went to Washou Ichiba market for lunch and had the Katte don, or seafood rice bowl, where you select your own toppings. Tried a lot of fish local to Kushiro waters, as well as octopus roe. Then it was off to Uocchi Ramen for their famous ramen. Went for the oyster ramen, even though I was quite full from the Katte don, but the ramen was very good! After that, I checked-in at my hotel, then went to Kushiro Station to get my 5-Day All-Hokkaido Rail Pass, as well as book my seats for my journey out of Kushiro to Noboribetsu. Went down to the Entertainment District for dinner. Popped into Robata, a veritable institution in Kushiro. The grand old lady still grilled all the food. Day 3 After breakfast in the hotel (Japanese-style buffet breakfast), I went to Kushiro Station to await my journey on SL Fuyu-no-Shitsugen, the steam locomotive, that runs between Kushiro and Shibecha during a limited season. I was thankful to my Japanese friends in Tokyo to have booked tickets for me. I originally thought that I would buy tickets for the journey, when I got to Kushiro, since the Rail Pass would cover the journey. However, such is the demand for tickets that the seats were sold out by the time I arrived in Kushiro. Riding on the steam locomotive was fun. Everyone was a fan-boy/girl, busy taking pictures and selfies. The train passes through the Kushiro Marsh, a protected area, where you can spot tanch. The train also stopped at a spot, where there was a tanch reserve, so we got to see three birds before arriving at Sinbecha. I just went to the kombini to buy some food at Sinbecha, before waiting for the return trip on the steam locomotive. Got to see the steam engine coupling with the cars. Soon, it was the return journey to Kushiro. There were no tanch in the reserve that we passed in the morning, but we got to see tanch in the wild and in flight. Everyone on the train was so excited! We also spotted many deer along the way. Soon we were back at Kushiro Station. For dinner, I went to Tori Yoshi for some fried chicken. Very reasonably-priced, and freshly fried to order! Day 4 I took Bus 20 to Tsurumidai to see the tanch, on the recommendation of the lady at the Tourist Information office at Kushiro Station. What a lovely location! With about 200 tanch including some young birds. Stayed for more than an hour, just watching the birds and taking pictures. It was fabulous to see so many tanch! Then took the bus back to Kushiro. Returned to Washou Ichiba, this time to eat crabs and scallops. I chose a live crab, that they promptly weighed and showed me the price. They cooked it after I paid for it, and even cut it up very nicely, so that eating it was very easy. Scallops were barbecued with soy and butter. I then went to MOO Kushiro Fishermans Wharf. Bought some seafood to send to my Japanese friends, to thank them for helping me buy the tickets for the steam locomotive. Had an early night, due to a very early start the next day. Day 5 Took the 5:35 am train out of Kushiro Station bound for Nemuro. Was treated to a spectacular sunrise as we got into Akkeshi. The train passes through a few conservation areas, and we got to see deer and eagles, even some resting on the tracks, before being tooted at by the train driver. I also enjoyed seeing the phenomenon of the frost on barren tree branches catching the early-morning light, causing them to dazzle like fairy lights. Took the bus from Nemuro Station to Cape Nosappu, the Easternmost point on Hokkaido. That was quite a nice location, complete with a marker to say that it is the Easternmost location (even though there are actually small islands to the East). On the way back, I also took pictures of Higashi Nemuro Station, the Easternmost train station in Japan. Stopped off at Akkeshi to eat oysters (the town is famous for its oysters), as well as to sample some Akkeshi Whisky. Too bad it was so difficult to buy a bottle or two. Returned to Kushiro, and then went back to the Entertainment District to Tempura Ryori Sakura. Thanks to Google Maps for guiding me, since that location was in a small alleyway. Lovely restaurant, with some interesting tempura! And that is basically it. Left the next morning for Noboribetsu. I was glad to have made the trip East. The region is still quite untouched by foreign tourists, compared with Central Hokkaido, which made the experience even more special."}
{"id": "0048", "text": "Just finished this trip with friends last week and it was great fun. This sort of fast paced itinerary might not be for everyone, but it made sense for us given the limited time off we had from work. Day 0: * Fly in and check in at the Airbnb in Ikebukuro. * Pickup Suica and 7-day Japan Rail pass on the way The airbnb was in a not-so-family friendly area in Ikebukuro, but apart from that it was very convenient to access from the station. Day 1: * Suga shrine (Your Name stairs) * Shinjuku Gyoen * Meiji Jingu * Yoyogi Park * Pokemon Center (Shibuya) * Jump Shop (Shibuya) * Tower Records (Shibuya) * MEGA Don Quijote Shibuya (extremely overrated place) Day 2: * Sensoji * Sumida river walk * Tokyo Skytree observation deck * Ueno Park * Shinkansen from Ueno to Sendai * Attended a concert in Sendai * Shinkansen back to Tokyo Day 3: * Highway bus to Kawaguchiko * Took the local sightseeing bus to the last stop and walked back on the route a bit, before getting on the bus again. * Fuji Panoramic Ropeway * Chureito Pagoda * Train back to Tokyo via Otsuki * Tokyo Metropolitan Building observation deck * Kabukicho area (just a quick walk around) Day 4: * Anime stuff at Akihabara * Odaiba (Statue of Liberty, Gundam Statue, Fuji TV building) Day 5: * Shinkansen to Kyoto and check in at an APA Hotel * Walk past Nintendo HQ * Fushimi Inari at night Day 6: * Arashiyama bamboo forest * Kinkakuji * Nijo Castle * Kiyomizudera (+Sannenzaka, Ninnenzaka, Yasaka Pagoda) Day 7: * Shinkansen to Hiroshima and check in at an APA Hotel * Hiroshima castle * Orizuru Tower observation deck * Peace Park &amp; Museum Day 8: * Ferry to Miyajima * Itsukushima Shrine * Daishoin Temple * Momijidani Temple * Ferry back and Shinkansen back to Tokyo, check in at a hotel near the station Day 9: * Fly out!"}
{"id": "0049", "text": "I recently took a 2-day, 1-night trip to Fukui, so Id love to share my experience! Day 1 6:41 AM 9:13 AM: Took the Shinkansen from Omiya (Saitama) to Fukui. 9:13 AM: Dropped off my luggage at Fukui Manten Hotel. 9:30 AM: Visited Fukui Castle Ruins. 11:00 AM: Had Fukuis famous Sauce Katsudon (a deep-fried pork cutlet with sauce). I recommend a restaurant called Yoroppaken! It gets crowded, so an early lunch is best. 1:00 PM: Visited Eiheiji Temple. A traditional Japanese temple surrounded by nature. 6:00 PM: Had Bukkake Soba (cold soba noodles with dipping sauce). 7:30 PM: Relaxed in the hotels onsen and went to bed. Day 2 9:00 AM: Visited the Fukui Prefectural Dinosaur Museum. 2:00 PM: Had Saba no Oshizushi (pressed mackerel sushi). 3:00 PM: Visited an art museum and relaxed at the museum caf. 6:00 PM: Had Bukkake Soba again (it was so good I ate it twice!). 8:00 PM: Took the Shinkansen back home. Right now, its winter in Japan, and Fukui is a region that gets a lot of snow. The snowy scenery was absolutely beautiful! Fukui might not be the most well-known travel destination, but a new Shinkansen line recently opened, making it much more accessible from Tokyo. If you ever get the chance to visit, I hope you enjoy it!"}
{"id": "0050", "text": "Hello! This is about the Kyoto section of my overall trip to Japan. Weve all heard about issues with crowds in Kyoto and a supposed disdain starting to build around tourists in Kyoto. I was nervous about contributing to that, and of course nervous about breaking rules or doing something to disrupt the peace as a tourist. I know the big things like keeping your trash, not talking loudly or on the phone on public transport, etc, but I worry about what I dont know outside of the research Ive done. What if I do something and upset someone or are scolded by a local? Should I even go? Well, I went here is what I did: Day 1: we(30m/31F) technically arrived on Thursday night, but Friday 2/14 was our first full day. We stayed in Gion 2 streets up from Shirakawa Canal. My girlfriend and I are fans of specialty coffee and we walked over to Weekenders Coffee and got a cup. It was good but kind of funny that there was construction happening in front of the shop with a literal jackhammer and it was maybe not as peaceful as usual haha. After that, we walked to Nishiki Market around 10:40 and strolled through and sampled shrimp tempura and some Wagyu. I heard the Wagyu can be overpriced and not worth it but I cant lie it was so tasty at the spot I went to. Melt in your mouth and buttery. I had two other skewers on my overall Japan trip and they werent as good as the one in Nishiki Market. It was $13USD which was pricey but thankfully I enjoyed it. After that, we went to a nearby Onitsuka Tiger shoe store, as my girlfriend had wanted to buy a pair in Japan. She got a pair for $65(tax free!) and said it was cheaper than buying in the US due to import fees, etc. She was so happy to buy them. We then went to a nearby Kyoto soup curry spot at like 11:50am nearby Nishiki Market and it was delicious and affordable. We then walked through Pontocho Alley during the day when mostly everything was closed and then went to a nearby Blue Bottle for an afternoon cup of coffee. We made our way to Yasaka Shrine at around 3:15pm and spent around 30 minutes there. We then walked to Heian Jingu Shrine and arrived at 4:15pm, which did have some construction going on but was still nice. Were from the US and know of this place from the film Lost In Translation so we really liked being there. That night, we went to a restaurant in Gion called spice32 for Japanese curry and we were the only customers once they opened at 6pm. It was a good meal! Day 2: we left out for Fushimi Inari and arrived at the entrance at around 10:15am. It was a Saturday and the base area had a good amount of people. I didnt feel overwhelmed or shoulder-to-shoulder with people. The first row of torri gates you walk through has a good amount of people, but its flat and a good place to see the torii gates for wheelchair users or people with limited mobility who cant do all the steps up. During the first part an elder Japanese man motioned to me to watch out for my head(I am 6,4/193cm) with a smile and a laugh and it made me feel at ease to have that local reassurance when I was so nervous about being intrusive. With it being Saturday, there were few minutes we were ever really alone but honestly it was fine. Loved it. Beautiful and amazing place. Good amount of people, and I heard Chinese, Spanish, English, and French spoken so a lot of tourists, but it clears up a little the further you go up. But I mean a little lol I imagine if you want to be truly alone, you must go very early or late? Also, we didnt go all the way up. We made it to the first lookout and then left. Dont know why. We just didnt care to go all the way to the top. After we left Fushimi Inari, we ate some Kyoto Gyukatsu. We got in line right at noon and had food at 12:31pm. We then made our way over to the Sasayach neighborhood to stop at a coffee shop called Blend. Great shop in a really pretty part of town. We then strolled back to Gion next to the Kamo River and it was so lovely. It was a sunny but chilly Saturday at 2:25pm and there were people out and just a really nice walk. We relaxed at home and then went to dinner across from our hotel at a place called Udon Main. Our first udon on the trip and it was so delicious and very affordable. That night our hotel hosted a maiko event that we went to and it was nice. There was a translator for us to ask her questions and she played konpira with us. We then turned in for the night around 10:30pm. This was supposed to be our third and last night in Kyoto but we were liking it a lot so we cancelled our two nights in Osaka and extended our stay in Kyoto! We know our pace is a little slower than others and we had more we wanted to see. Day 3: this was Sunday 2/16 and we got up and left our hotel around 10:15am to walk to a cafe the barista at Blend recommended. Except It was the day of the Kyoto Marathon. We were almost to the cafe then saw we couldnt cross the street due to the roads being blocked off for the marathon. We circled back to see if we could go around it. It would have been a really long detour so we said we will just change plans and go elsewhere. We think oh maybe we can take a bus but it turns out the buses were running at a much different schedule or not doing the normal route, so we couldnt do that. We said well we probably cant get a taxi here, so lets walk a bit away in the other direction and see if we can get a taxi. We walk and then pull up the Go app and likea huge portion of the area is blocked off so we cant get a taxi haha so at that point we get an early lunch at an Indian place nearby. Okay we want to go to Nanzenji, lets just walk in the direction of it and so we walked. And we came to the finish line of the race at Heian Jingu. Great! Surely we can finally cross near the finish line! Wrong. Japan sure knows how to secure an area haha. At this point, we go back to our hotel at 2pm and rest. Weve walked almost 9000 steps and essentially didnt do anything we actually wanted! We definitely werent prepared for this. We end up relaxing and ordering some healthy food from Uber Eats for dinner and staying in. Day 4: we wake up and go to Kurasu for coffee around 10:15am. We then finally make our way to Nanzenji! We had a cab driver and barista say this was their favorite place in Kyoto, so we were looking forward to it. It was a Monday around 11:25am so there werent many people. We went to the top of the gate to see the panoramic view, saw the aqueduct, and the peaceful Hoju Garden. We went to lunch nearby at Dragon Burger then went to a beautiful Blue Bottle for coffee. We then went BACK into Nanzenji to explore the side gardens and grounds. We decided to head to Kiyomizudera and got there around 5pm. So many people on the streets leading up to the top! Lots of cars moving down narrow streets with people, too. This was one place we thought okay this is a lot of people. It was nice at the top but wasnt our favorite thing we did. We walked back down and at around 5:40pm we saw the beautiful Hkanji on an essentially empty street because all the shops were closed by then. It made for a great photo and a really wonderful sight. Day 5: wake up and went to 2050 Coffee around 9:20am and then got our stuff and went to the station to head back to Tokyo! We really loved Kyoto and wouldve enjoyed staying even longer to explore deeper into the city outside those big sites. We hope to visit again and see some other major sites that we skipped for this trip. We just really dont like to have a full itinerary planned, nothing against the places we skipped like Kinkaku-ji or Arashiyama."}
{"id": "0051", "text": "**Context:** * 22 - was a graduation trip before I start work * Partially with some friends, partially solo. * First time in Japan * From USA but ethnically Indian. Took some Japanese in college which helped a lot * Vegetarian, but friends weren't, so separated for meals pretty often. * What I brought: 1 carry-on and backpack. Overcoat, bunch of clothes, snow boots (needed for some places in the Alps), Asics Gel Kayano 14, meds, laptop. * Pretty much planned the entire trip through Google Sheets (can share if needed), including vegetarian restaurants in all the cities. **Day 1: Landed in NRT** * Flight was delayed by like 6 hours so got through immigration in 45 minutes and went straight to my hotel (near Ikebukuro) and slept **Day 2: Tokyo** * Didn't plan this day at all so just did what I felt and went where I wanted to. * Woke up hella early, got a protein shake from 7/11, checked out the area around my hotel, and went to a coffee shop in Shimokitazawa as soon as they opened. * Walked around and checked out some thrift stores (didn't find anything too exciting) and got lunch. * Went to Shibuya to see the Scramble and this anime I liked had a popup in the bookstore so got some posters. * Went to Ginza to buy a gift that needed to be pre-ordered 2 weeks in advance and checked out some stores in the area (but didn't buy anything else) * Got dinner and went back * **Random thoughts:** The train from Ikebukuro to Shinjuku was packed like sardines with people shoving in which kinda took me aback. **Day 3: Matsumoto &amp; Nagano** * Took a 9:30 AM bus to Matsumoto. It was lightly snowing when I got there which was exciting * Got lunch and walked to the castle. It was so pretty. I paid 700 yen to go inside the grounds and in the castle. You had to take your shoes off so my feet were numb by the end of it. I enjoyed the inside but not sure if I'd go back in again. * Had to kill a few hours in Matsumoto so went to a small shrine and got a goshuin book. Waited till the light show, which I thought was pretty cool, but it did feel weird seeing so many animations to a historical temple. If I had to re-do it, I probably wouldn't have waited the 3 hours to see it, and then have to wait another 45 minutes to get the train to Nagano, but that's your call to make. * Took a short train to Nagano and checked into my hotel **Day 4: Nagano and Snow Monkeys!** * Bought the snow monkey pass at the station and took the first bus from Nagano to the monkey park (was planning on taking the second but made it in time for the first) * I sat in the front and got off first and started walking up. It was a pretty long walk and not crowded at all early on. Seeing the monkeys was surreal. Def recommend * Took the from the monkey park to Shibu Onsen and walked around. Such a pretty area but everything seemed pretty old and run down in Shibu, so I'm kinda glad I didn't stay there. Walked to Yudanaka, stopped at Obuse for sightseeing, and then went to Nagano * Went to Zenko-ji, which was awesome, but I didn't pay to go all the way in. Got some lunch/ice cream there too. Definitely recommend the oyaki there. **Day 5: Togakushi Shrine** * Took the 9:30 am bus or so to Togakushi. The route was hella beautiful. Once I got to the middle shrine, there was like a 1.5 hour hike to the gates, and then further to the upper shrine. The snow was hella deep and my pants got kinda soaked. The cedar trees were breathtaking though so I definitely recommend it. * Took the Shinkansen to Kanazawa. Got dinner and spent the night there * **Random Advice:** They'll have a foreign help section in a lot of major stations and they'll always recommend the reserved seats, but I went with the unreserved seats since I'm a cheap fuck and noticed it was much less crowded and was able to get a set of 3 seats to myself. **Day 6: Kanazawa (Shirakawa-go day trip)** * I booked my bus trip about a week in advance since I knew it would sell out quick. I took the second bus in the morning and had about 4 hours there. * I climbed to the viewpoint, walked around and checked out some of the houses, open-air museum, went to a shrine and temple, and got lunch. Definitely felt like 4 hours was too much and I ended up roaming around for a while till my bus got back. * Honestly was super exhausted, so kind of just walked around the Higashi Chaya area and chilled in my hotel till dinner. This was mostly the last of my further-away day trips. The weather in Kanazawa is kinda ass and the annoying thing about it is the station is 20 minutes away from a lot of the hotels which are like 20 minutes away from the sights, but it's a small city so can't complain too much ig. * Went to a random super tiny bar in chuo mishokugai and it was me and this Japanese couple there and I got to practice my Japanese with them. Probably the most immersive experience I had and they were so friendly which was awesome. I was worried before I entered since there was just a small Japanese menu outside and there were only like 6 seats inside and I didn't know how they felt about foreigners (I had to translate the name using lens and there were like 2 google reviews in Japanese), but I'm so glad I went. **Day 7: Kanazawa** * Checked out early and spent the day doing all the popular things in Kanazawa * Went to Higashi Chaya to get the gold leaf ice cream and do some shopping, then walked around Kenrokuen, the DT Suzuki museum, and then the Nagamachi Samurai District. * Took the afternoon Shinkansen to Osaka **Day 8 - 10: Osaka** * I'm kinda getting bored typing all this so gonna condense some more. * Got a bit sick one day so took that day to rest and do my laundry * Mainly did the popular stuff here: Dotonbori, Namba, Amemura, Osaka Castle * Day trip to Nara: went to Todai-ji (absolutely magnificent), Kasuga-taisha Shrine, Kofuki-ji, and spent hella time feeding and petting the deer * **Random Advice:** Don't wear your fancy Moncler puffer to Nara, a poor lady got hers ripped up :( * Went to Kyoto in the afternoon and checked out Sanjusangendo Temple before checking in **Day 11: Kyoto** * Got to Kiyomizudera around 8 am. Not crowded at all. Crowds started coming in around 9am-ish. Would def do this as early as possible (probably earlier than me in Spring/Fall( * Walked around Ninenzaka/Sannenzaka and took some photos of the Yasaka Pagoda. Then chilled in the fancy Starbies for a bit * Went to Chion-in, Yasaka Shrine, and Heian Jingu before grabbing a very late lunch * Walked around a park and along the river **Day 12: Arashiyama** * Probably my busiest day. Got there around 9:30 am and it wasn't super crowded but more crowded than anywhere else I'd been (besides Tokyo) * Places I saw in order: Bamboo Forest, Tenryu-ji. Jojakko-ji, Gio-ji, Saga Torimoto Preserved Street, Otagi Nenbutsuji, Daikaku-ji, super late lunch, and Togetsukyo bridge * Was bored so went to Fushimi Inari around 9:30 pm. I could hear boars making sound while walking up and was kinda scared but still went all the way to the top. Halfway has a very nice view and then the top is pretty cool too. Honestly, would've loved to do this during the morning as well, since I hardly saw any cats :( **Day 13: Kyoto** * Spent the morning just walking around Kyoto and exploring the city * In the afternoon, I went to Kinkaku-ji since the sun was out. It was so crowded but so worth it, but it def wouldn't have been as nice without the sun, especially since it's so out of the way. * Went to Kitano Tennmangu Shrine * **Random advice:** Northern Kyoto is pretty far and not super accessible and there is sooooo much traffic after like 2:30 or 3 pm so I had to skip Ryoan-ji, which was one of the temples I wanted to see most since I got there pretty late. Plan this day accordingly. Also a lot of places like Ryoan-ji close at 4:30 during Winter as opposed to 5:00, so check the websites and not Google. **Day 14: Kyoto to Tokyo** * Went to Ryoan-ji late in the morning after checking out of my hotel since I HAD to see it. I'm so happy I did, it felt kinda cathartic * Spent wayyy too much on matcha at the Marukyu Koyamaen store * Took the train to Tokyo. Again, went unreserved since I'm cheap and ended up getting the E seat, but it got hella cloudy the closer we went to Tokyo and didn't see Fuji :( * Went clubbing on a Sunday like a degen **Day 15 - 19: Tokyo** * Not really much to say here, did a lot of the standard Tokyo Stuff * Visited Harajuku, Shibuya, Shinjuku, Ebisu, Akihabara, Asakusa, Teamlabs Borderless, Pokemon Store * Did a lot of shopping and spent way too much money on drip, plushies, and gifts * Wish I spent more time in Tokyo def feel like I barely scratched the surface of the city * Bought hella snacks at the duty free in NRT before flying back. Would recommend buying stuff here since I believe it's the same price as everywhere else and you don't have to worry about packing it. My favorite snacks were the Matcha Millifeuiele or however you say it and the Matcha mochi with whipped cream inside. My family loved the peach/banana kitkats and Royce chocolates. **Overall thoughts:** * Sorry for yapping so much I'm sure y'all seen a lot of the same advice so gonna try to share sum unique stuff * You can buy hella cheap suitcases at Akky in Akihabara and they're kinda shit but cheaper than paying like $35 one way for a checked bag if you're not flying direct like I did. This helped a lot since I didn't want to carry a large bag around or have to worry about luggage forwarding and could just buy a suitcase at the end according to my packing needs. You could also get nicer suitcases, but I bought the cheapest one and it survived fine. * Being vegetarian isn't that hard tbh since HappyCow is sooo helpful. Your biggest issue is probably not being able to walk into any random restaurant when you want (which a lot of people loved) and you'll have to do some research beforehand to see if you need a rez. Worst case, I went to Ippudo (not all have the vegetarian option) or a pizza place (pizza in Japan is fye) or got salt onigiri with a beer (I tried like 20 different flavors) if I had no other options. One thing I wish I did was when I stayed in Tokyo to be in Shibuya since there are sooo many options nearby, which I didn't have at other places. On my last day I was doing shopping in Shibuya Parco and didn't plan a restaurant and there were literally 3 goated vegetarian options in that mall itself. I can make a list of all the restaurants I visited if ppl r interested but don't think there are too many vegetarians here lol. * In terms of visiting in winter, I think it's a great time to check out the Alps or an Onsen area (which I didn't do ). I never had an issue with crowds besides maybe the usual commuter traffic in Tokyo, and in Dotonbori at night. However, the sights do become noticeably less photogenic and pretty (especially a lot of temples with barren trees), so just something to notice. It'll def look less like the Japan you see in a lot of anime (if that's the thing ur going for lol). It also gets dark way earlier which kinda sucks, but a lot of shit closes at 5pm anyway so it's not the worst thing in the world. Cold was never unbearable but bring gloves and some head cover, especially in the Alps where snow froze over my hair since I'm an idiot. * Hopefully I can go back during a Spring and check out the other parts of Japan (I saw Suzume on the flight back so Ehime is #1 on my list)"}
{"id": "0052", "text": "Hello! Just wanted to write about my Japan trip from mid-January to the end of the month. This trip became my favourite vacation ever! It was our first trip to Japan, so we went for the standard Tokyo-Osaka-Kyoto-Nara trip. Being from Sweden I didn't suffer from the cold, in fact I even won a few degrees compared to where I live. Point is, don't let winter scare you from going to Japan, it's mild (as long as you don't go to the North I guess)! We only had 2 AirBnB accommodations: 1 in Tokyo (Shinjuku) and 1 in Osaka (Fukushima Ward). This worked really well, we ended up paying a total of around 350usd per person for 10 nights. I did quite a bit of research before the trip, so I had a rough idea of which areas I wanted to go to most days. I also tried to learn some basic Japanese on Duolingo and with a phrase book. Even learned hiragana/katakana, it occasionally helped with reading train station names before the english text came up but not much more. For the most part I feel you can survive with minimal Japanese, even though the English level in Japan seems low. We were 8 people (friends), which is quite a lot for a Japan trip. We often had to split up to find space at restaurants for example, though it still went pretty well. Most of my friends shared a pocket wifi, but I went for an esim (Ubigi) since I sometimes liked to go and do my own thing! I recommend it, if anything I think that everyone should have like 1gb, in case they lose track of the person with the pocket wifi. As a side note, I was particularly interested in shrines and temples this trip so I definitely went out of my way to see them. Did research about them before, so found out about collecting goshuin which became one of my main interests during the trip. I also of course tried my best to follow the correct etiquette at shrines/temples, although it felt like I (non-asian looking) stood out a lot when I did that. Still think it was fine though? **Tokyo** **Day 1 (Harajuku, Meiji, Shibuya):** we started the day at Harajuku and went through Takeshita street. Yes it's overrated but still fun for the vibes, it was in the morning so it wasn't so crowded. Right after we visited Togo shrine, like 100m or so away, and it was really cool seeing such a peaceful place right next to Takeshita. Then we went to Meiji, and where I bought my goshuincho. This was definitely the place where I had to wait the longest in line for goshuin. After that we walked to Shibuya and spent the rest of the day there, eating lunch and especially shopping. Shout-out to the Parco building with the Pokemon center and more, also bought an awesome phone case at Casetify. Also spent a lot of time at Loft, looove those decorative paper things that you fold out (not sure what it's called, but for example it could be a paper sakura tree that you fold out and it becomes 3d). **Day 2 (Asakusa, Ueno, Tokyo Tower)** We started the day (weekday!) somewhat early at Senso-ji, which was definitely the most crowded thing we did in Tokyo. Though it wasn't that bad, especially when you reached the temple itself. There's also nice things to see around the main temple. We went to Asakusa shrine which was right next to Senso-ji, as well as a tiny fox shrine (Hikan Inari) right next to it. Very nice goshuin with little foxes on it! Overall I liked the temple/shrines. After walking around Asakusa a bit we moved on with out day. Some went to the Baseball Hall of Fame, though I opted for Ueno Park (and yakiniku lunch at Ueno). There were some really nice shrines/temple, and I went to the National Museum. Honestly not really a highlight to me, it's cool but I think you can skip it especially if you've already seen many nice museums in your life. Then I joined my friends at Tokyo Tower and we stayed there quite a bit and saw the sunset. I can recommend it, maybe not the best view possible of Tokyo (heard Shibuya Sky is the best?) but the building is cool! **Day 3 (Shinjuku)** A lot of walking around/shopping in Shinjuku. Saw Omoide Yokocho, Godzilla head... Went to big stores like Yodobashi Camera with a seemingly infinite amount of floors, the day passed by quickly! Overall really cool part of the city. Went to Hanazano shrine which was very calm, can recommend. **Day 4 (Setagaya, Akibahara, Ueno again)** My friends spent the morning at the Metropolitan Government Building, while I went to Setagaya to see some bucket-list shrines (like an hour of transport, as I wrote earlier I definitely went out of my way to go to shrines). Started with Gotokuji temple, a cat (maneki-neko) temple. Highly recommend, although it is somewhat touristy despite being quite a way from the more central Tokyo. Then I walked like 30min to Sakura shrine, which was nice and was selling really nice omamori, goshuincho, etc. The visit was less worth it since it wasn't cherry blossom season, but I still got satisfaction from it. The 30min walk was one of the least touristy ones I did, but I still appreciated getting a little insight on the vibes of residential Tokyo. Then I joined my friends at Akihabara and we spent the whole day there looking at stores. I also of course went to Kanda Myoujin shrine, which happened to have some kind of show/ritual/ceremony (???) with masked people playing music, holding a hammer-like object. A lot of people there praying, definitely the most lively shrine experience I had, felt a tad bit out of place as a non-Japanese but it was interesting. We finished the day in Ueno park, since there was a food festival going on. **Day 5 (Mount Takao)** Many in the friend group were craving a nature experience at this point, so we hiked Mt Takao. We went on a weekday (important I think!) so it wasn't so crowded. The hike was definitely easy, even on the more \"difficult\" paths. Of course went through Yakuin Yukiji Temple on the way. Ate some nice soba noodles around the top. I went to the monkey park on the way down, though I think it's very skippable, the monkeys didn't look that happy. I took the chair lift both ways, because I found it super fun having my legs out in the air (as opposed to being inside a cable car). Unfortunately too cloudy to see Fuji. Overall I recommend Mount Takao, but it's not an absolute must-do. Would not do it if you suspect that it will be crowded. We finished off the day at the onsen near the station, which was really nice and accommodating to us non-Japanese. **Day 6 (Shinkansen to Osaka)** Travel to osaka via Tokyo station, went very smoothly! We were in the non-reserved cart. We were quite tired when we arrived at the accommodation, so we didn't do that much. Did some sake-tasting at a restaurant nearby. **Day 7 (Osaka)** Osaka was the part of the trip that i did the least research on, mostly followed my friends' advice. Went to Umeda Sky for some views, was cool but maybe not a highlight of the trip. Then I went to some shrines: Namba Yasaka (awesome!), Hozen-ji. Also went to Isshin-ji temple which was pretty, though had an interesting interaction with the priest when I went to get goshuin. Basically she seemed very skeptical of me, and wanted me to read some japanese words that were relevant to the temple, and read a brochure. To be clear I really appreciated this, I was genuinely interested in temples and wanted to learn more. With that being said it was a bit scary because I felt like the whole conversation had a bit of a negative undertone... anyways also went to Shitennoji shrine because it happened to have a flea market around it that day! Was a very impressive complex. Then I joined my friends at Osaka castle, which is super pretty. In the evening we went to the illuminage show right next to the castle (I believe it's a winter-only event), which was fun. Then we ate dinner in Dotonbori. **Day 8 (Kyoto)** I left the accommodation in Osaka at 6:30AM (alone) and was at Fushimi inari shrine a bit before 8. I often felt alone in the Torii gate tunnels, and it was trivially easy to take pictures with no one in them. I've read some say that even 7-8am is too late to avoid crowds, but i definitely did (maybe because it was January?). Aside from the shrines on the way, the nature was really nice. At some point in the middle of the mountain I went off-path and was in the middle of a forest alone. Then when I was back at the bottom around 10am, tourists were flooding in and the torii gates were super crowded. At that time I found the \"secret\" bamboo forest, and was completely alone. Overall these 3 hours of Fushimi Inari + bamboo forest where my favourite part of the trip. Then I went to the Ninenzaka/Sannenzaka and ate some street food, the pork buns were pretty nice. Then I visited Kiyomizu-dera at around 11-12. This part was definitely crowded since I didn't have the early morning on my side anymore, but it was still tolerable (less so on the streets leading up to the temple). Then I walked to some other places of interest, like Kodaji temple and had a brief stop at Gion. After that I made my way to Philosopher's path, in the pursuit of a less crowded calm place (recommend the Kyoto Travel Congestion Forecast). Ginkakuji was beautiful, and the path was indeed peaceful. Though it's probably much more worth going during cherry blossom season! Then as my phone battery started getting dangerously low I joined one of my friends at Nishiki market. Yes it's probably tourist-trappy but what I bought was nice, and the sight was spectacular. After looking around some stores and dinner we went home. (By the way I walked 37k steps that day...) **Day 9 (Nara)** Of course we started at the deer park, bought some crackers, got pushed from behind by a deer noticing I was trying to hide the rest of my cracker collection... went to Yoshikien gardens which was beautiful. Then of course I saw Todai-ji temple with the big Buddha statue, definitely one of the most impressive temples I saw from the outside (it's huge!). Also went to Kasuga shrine which was really pretty, and was surrounded by forest. I like how there were deer everywhere where I went. **Day 10 (back to Tokyo, last day)** Taking the Shinkansen from Osaka was more chaotic than from Tokyo station, where you bought the ticket at the machine and got 1 ticket that covered everything. Here in Osaka you need to get 2 different ones (base fare, and shinkansen ticket), which I believe is more standard across the country. The confusing thing was that you needed your Suica to buy the basic fare. Don't remember all details, but it's partially because you also have to pay for the transportation you took to go to shin-osaka (for some reason there was no way to blip your suica before the shinkansen area). However it was only possible to do it on the machine with a physical suica, so for once iphone-suica users were at a disadvantage and had to do a long queue... it all worked out but we thought the instructions were unclear (or maybe we're just stupid!). As we arrived I used the the app Bounce to find a place nearby to deposit our luggage for the day, it worked really well! You can also use coin lockers at Tokyo station, but these are often full (especially larger ones for luggage), there is a website to check coin locker availability forecast. I explored the Ginza area, and went back to Shibuya a bit (more Loft and Parco...). Then it was time to go back to Haneda!"}
{"id": "0053", "text": "With the end of the year coming up I found myself with floating holidays that needed to be used. At the same time my sister had just graduated college and I was thinking about doing something to celebrate. Since I'm an airline employee and we get flight benefits I started looking at taking a trip; Tokyo had good odds so we went for it. Ultimately we only had about 3 or 4 days to 'plan' so we didn't exactly have an itinerary. We just started off with a list of things we wanted to do and we took things day by day which ended up working out pretty well. Here's what we did: Day 0 (the flight over) - Get lucky and get Delta One seats on an A330neo, book hotel on inflight wifi without doing a ton of research. We ended up picking a hotel in Ikebukuro because it was cheap - the location was nearly perfect and we got super lucky with it. Day 1 - We arrive at Haneda. Flight lands at 2pm, purchase an eSim and Suica, we're out and at the hotel by 5pm. - Weather was beautiful, both for the day and the whole trip. It averaged 50f (50c) and sunny -- quite the adjustment from -5f (-15c) and snowing when we left Minnesota. - Spend the evening exploring Ikebukuro, get food from a random place - delicious. - My sister tries her first Strong Zero and I come down with a cold overnight. Day 2 - Satisfied my symptoms are just a cold and not COVID or strep, have my sister grab me some cold meds. I mask up and move on. - Sample vending machine coffee and take the train to Ueno park - see the park itself, associated museums and watch some youth leauge(?) baseball randomly. - Hop back on the train, headed to Asakusa to see Senshoji temple and a taiko store that sis wanted to see since she plays in college. - Afterwords, see some of Shinjuku, visit Map Camera, dinner (+ highballs), bed. Day 3 - Take the train to Yokosuka and visit the Mikasa museum. We got to chat with one of the volunteers for awhile, apparently served in the USN on loan from the JMSDF and he spoke good English. It was very cool. - Explore the park around Mikasa (very pretty), what we can of the USN base and Yokosuka. - Accidentally take the local train back from Yokosuka to Yokohama, get rewarded with an empty train, front car seats and really pretty views. Accidental highlight of the trip, it was so nice. - From there connect to Machida to see the Snoopy museum. You definitely get more out of it as a non American but it was still cute and our mom raised us on Peanuts, Far Side and Calvin &amp; Hobbes so it was worth it either way. - The museum is connected to a park and a mall so we explored both, got some Christmas shopping in, ate dinner and called it a night. Day 4 - the \"day trip\" - Take the train to Tokyo station, buy tickets for the Tokaido shinkansen and ride to Nagoya. The weather was good so we got a great view of Mt. Fuji and the surrounding countryside. - From there connect to the Toyota museum and, without planning, accidentally (unplanned, I didn't even know it was there) ride Japan's only operational maglev - the Linimo line. They had some cute souvenirs too. - See the Toyota museum - both the cars and the \"cars as culture\" section after (which was amazingly cool). Then we left two little cards for their wall at the end - I've got the Miata, sis has the Rav. - Return to Nagoya, check out the castle and park, grab dinner then take the shinkansen back. Once in Tokyo, walk around the Imperial palace park (what we can anyway at night), take a meh panorama, head back to the hotel. Day 5 - We decided to split up. My sister had some shopping to do and visited a costume museum - I went and did the JR East railway museum in Omiya - Words cannot describe how much stuff the museum has, it's awesome. The pics don't do it justice. I particularly appreciated their working model traction unit and associated mechanical computer. The model railroad was an unexpected treat and it put the Chicago Museum of Science and Industries' railroad to shame (which is saying something). Spent some time chatting with one of the volunteers about working as a mechanic and things like that (he was a JR mechanic, I'm an aircraft mechanic) which was super super cool. - After the rail museum we meet up in Shibuya, walk around and see the sights there and in Harijuku. After take the train back to Ikebukuro, grab dinner, beers in the park, bed. Day 6 - day trip II - We split up again, this time I go to the Honda Collection Hall in Motegi. I take a train out of Tokyo, rent a car, I ended up with a Yaris, and drive up. The drive itself was pretty even if it was hard to admire the scenery since it was my first time driving on the left, lol. - The collection hall itself is wonderful it's not quite as big as Toyota but there's just so much to see. And as a long time Honda fan, current Honda driver/rider and former Honda employee it was something of a pilgrimage for me. - After the museum, check out Motegi Raceway. Walk around the stadium and paddock, watch a track day and some open wheel racing. - Drive the car back to Mito, try out Japanese McDonalds then take the train back to Ikebukuro. - Have a beer in the park, decide to grab dinner, accidentally strike up a convo with a group of random Japanese dudes. We gave some beers, talk, have a good time then I head back to the hotel. Day 7 - Final day. I was a bit hung over so I got a late start (~9am). I had been planning to forward bags to the airport but we missed the cutoff so I took the train to Haneda and checked my bag. - I took the train to Carmakecorn's, a small Miata garage out in Edogawa so I could grab some parts for my Miata. After I visited PIT Autobachs and a motorcycle store next door and got some gloves as well as parts for my CX500. - Take the train back to the airport, clear security (and accidentally forget to remove the 35mm film I bought from my carry-on..), get lucky and get Delta One a second time. All in all, for basically winging the trip it turned out really really well and it was a great lesson for further international travel since this was A) my first time traveling with organizing the trip myself and B) traveling to a non-English country. I think probably the biggest strength of our trip was our flexibility and spending most of our time out of the very touristy areas, I found I enjoyed that a lot more, at least based off our short walk-around of Shibuya and Harujuku. That said I do sort of wish we did more touristy stuff - or at least spent more time in the really popular places of Tokyo. I'm not sure I would have enjoyed it as much but I could at least say I did it. I also wish I was able to go out to more at bars night but being catching that cold quashed that. Next time for sure. Either or it's just wistful thinking. The trip was still amazing and I really want to visit Japan again, though for next time I definitely want to get out of Tokyo. A smaller city could be fun but I was kicking around the idea of renting a motorcycle and touring the countryside. Riding the coast just sounds amazingly fun - though I'd want to learn enough Japanese to have a passable conversation before attempting something like that. As a bonus, here's everything I got"}
{"id": "0054", "text": "Just came back from my first trip in Japan of a little over two weeks. Super long post I know, but... **Day 1 (Tokyo):** * I arrive in Narita. I didn't bring any cash and I didn't buy a Suica card either. I bought an e-sim with unlimited data before departure. * I had been studying Japanese for about 3 months at this point, \\~2 hours a day on average, but once I got here it was like everything went out the window. I was so nervous to even mutter out \"arigato gozaimasu\" and everything I learned seemingly disappeared from my memory. * I immediately take the Skyliner to Ueno and walk to my hotel. * Then I go outside to explore Tokyo at night for the first time. I just walk around the neighborhood. **Day 2 (Tokyo):** * I'm up at like 6AM ready to explore. I try my first onigiri at a konbini. * I want to experience \"local\" Tokyo culture so I head to a quieter shopping street in Koto. * Everything was closed so I wander around for a few hours and sit down at a Lawson. The neighborhood is really quiet and cute. * When the stores outside open around 10AM, there's a bunch of interesting stuff and I buy some dango and mochis to try. * I check out the fruit markets because I love fruit. Immediately I'm utterly shocked by the absurd size of these persimmons. The photo doesn't capture if properly but I guess IYKYK. * Here's a stall selling fried foods. Actually, looking back on it they looked really good in comparison to anywhere else I'd see later on in my trip. * This store was busy as hell for whatever reason. It had a line wrapping around the corner. * I go to Akihabara and visit Yodobashi Camera and Uniqlo. * I eat my first restaurant meal Roast beef on rice. * I head to Shimokitazawa. Didn't even know what to expect I just heard it recommend by many locals. It was mostly just vintage or highly curated \"thrift\" stores, but beautiful area. I felt a bit out of place fashion wise. * I buy sushi at a supermarket before heading back to the hotel. I felt like I should have tried a restaurant instead but it still looked super fresh IMO. **Day 3 (Tokyo):** * For breakfast I try sukiyaki for the first time. I didn't know until after you were supposed to crack the egg in the bowl to dip the meat. I cracked it straight into the soup. * I'm back in Akihabara because I realize I didn't even explore the main areas with anime/maid cafe stuff. * I try a bunch of konbini snacks. Donuts, ice cream, parfaits. * I see a giant cabbage, tuna head, super fresh looking sashimi at the store. * I head to Ameyoko. This might be one of my favorite places in Tokyo to roam around. Just so lively and interesting even if it's a tourist hotspot. They also have great deals on Rorax's if you're interested. * I go to Jinbocho book district. Famous for it's various stores with outdoor bookshelves. * I visit 2k540, a small shopping arcade comprised of vendors from Japan who handcraft their goods. I buy some handmade daruma's. I'd always seen photos of these but never knew what they were until the lady at the shop explained them to me. * I check into a new ryokan style hotel. This place actually sucked (and it had zero to do with comfort) but let's not get too deep into that... * I get dinner from a konbini. * After I chill out at the hotel I start to notice my ankle is swelling up real bad and is very painful. During the day I noticed some irritation while walking, but I guess with the blood pumping and adrenaline you don't notice the pain. Still not really sure what happened, but this was super disappointing as I was hoping to do the Shimanami Kaido. It still hasn't fully healed after my trip. **Day 4 (Tokyo -&gt; Kyoto):** * I'm heading to Kyoto today. I do some last minute exploring around the neighborhood, grab a coffee and eat a bunch of konbini snacks again. Sweet potato donut, chocolate biscuits and an apple cake. * First time on the Shinkansen. The seats were great, the train was relatively empty and the ride was quick. * I arrive in Kyoto. First impressions? 1) The station is MASSIVE 2) It's SO crowded. Felt more crowded than anywhere I'd been in Tokyo. I hated it. * My hotel was nice and modern, but right on Shijo-dori. Great for being right by all the action, terrible because it's right by all the action. My initial expectation of Kyoto was not this and I was disappointed. I guess that's partially my fault for not digging deeper into Kyoto but I also blame travel influencers for painting unrealistic pictures that look better for their vlog/posts. * I just explore the neighborhood looking for quieter streets, but everything was pretty busy even several blocks in from the main roads. Lots of nice trendy and high-end looking shops, but definitely not the \"old and rustic\" vibe I was expecting. I see a small temple right off a main road. * I grab a hamburger steak meal with karaage. It was decent. * At this point I was feeling really down about Kyoto. It was far from my expectations and super crowded with tourists. I could hear more foreign languages at times than Japanese. I remember texting my friends \"I might leave Kyoto tomorrow\". But I told myself to try to keep a positive mindset. **Day 5 (Kyoto):** * The next morning off the advice of a Redditor, I decide to go to this spot (I forgot the name) to see the Tori Gates without the crowds of Fushimi Inari Taisha. I take a taxi 5AM to catch sunrise. * Don't get me wrong it was a nice place to visit but I was expecting rows of Tori Gates like Fushima, and not literally two Tori Gates, the minimum to be plural haha. * It was a park with a temple at the end. I noticed almost everyone I passed would greet me with an \"ohayo\". * I'm in the northern part of Kyoto, I decide to walk all the way back so I can explore the \"real\" city and get a feel for the neighborhoods. There's a nice river nearby. * I see a small farm and greenhouse right in the middle of the city. * The neighborhood is really quiet and peaceful. There were a lot of small temples/shrines. * I eat dessert at a local shop and some matcha. * I see the biggest Family Mart I've ever seen and get my first fried chicken there. It was good. * I walk down a really interesting shopping street. Everything was closed though, I wish I could have gone back another time, it looks like it would be fun. * I get more dessert. I thought it was somewhere else I saw on Google but I got the name wrong and by the time I found out I was a bit too embarrassed to leave. The texture of the pancake thing was really good though. * I find this random temple and I'm the only person there. Very cool. More pics \\[1\\], \\[2\\]. * I find another random temple, this time with a bunch of soccer players? Or some old traditional sport? More pics \\[1\\], \\[2\\]. * Kyoto is famous for grilled eel I believe, so I get some takeout as the restaurant was packed. It was like $50 or something, not cheap. **Day 6 (Kyoto):** * I made a reservation at Saihji knowing they limit the number of visitors per day and really wanting to avoid crowds. They had the most beautiful temple there, but didn't allow photos. We did a quick calligraphy session before roaming the gardens. Pics \\[1\\], \\[2\\], \\[3\\], \\[4\\]. Really beautiful and quiet garden. * Afterwards I grabbed lunch at a small local restaurant. Apparently this type of soba is a regional specialty. Made with sweet potatoes IIRC. It was decent, could use some meat or something. The staff were really nice though. Also got anmitsu for dessert. Another pic of the restaurant. * I explored the neighborhood. I saw on Google Maps there were some nearby parks/temples so I wanted to find those. I couldn't find the park I was looking for, but I found a bamboo forest and I was the only one there. * Then I found this temple. Beautiful scenery especially with the sunlight, autumn leaves and bamboo \\[1\\], \\[2\\]. That walkway was one of my favorite views the whole trip. * The houses in the area were really nice. * I go to Kinkaku-ji after literally just hearing about it. I was lucky that there weren't that many people, I was actually surprised when I Googled it afterwards to see it was as popular of a tourist spot as it was. Beautiful temple and you can get pretty close to it. * I check out Nishiki Market and Teramachi. Then I walk to Gion at night and come back. Didn't explore much there. * I try Ichiran for the first time. It was good, but at the time I wasn't THAT impressed. I had heard lots of rave reviews from friends and it was my first bowl of ramen in Japan so the expectations were high. However, in hindsight after the trip, it probably was the best ramen I had there. And the service was kind of insane for that kind of restaurant IMO lol. The staff were insanely nice and the guy serving the ramen itself did like a 5 second bow. I saw a job posting it was for 1300JPY/hr. **Day 7 (Kyoto -&gt; Onomichi):** * For my final morning here, I decided to at least check out Kiyomizu Tera and Fushimi Inari. As much as I was dreading the crowds, I thought it would be disappointing to not at least go. * I take a taxi at 5AM to to Kiyomizu Tera. I was the first one there and I start to think maybe I came too early? 5:30ish. * By the time they open at 6AM there's probably \\~30ish people? * We enjoy a nice view in the dark with the temple lit up. * Everyone is waiting on the balcony for the sun to come up and shine on the leaves. It took about 5 hours to fully shine over the mountain top and yes I waited for it. I thought fk it I already lined up since 5AM for this and it's autumn season, when will I ever see this again? * By now I'm running low on time to catch the train to Hiroshima. So I walk around and take pics of the Pagoda and go to the shopping street. I go in almost every store on the main pathway. * It's CROWDED by now. But to be honest, even as a guy who hates crowds, it didn't really bother me as much as I thought it would. The road was crowded, but the stores were not and it wasn't really difficult to walk through. * I finally try some non-packaged matcha ice cream here. It was good. * I didn't have enough time for Fushimi. * I head over to the station and grab a quick Gyukatsu before heading on the train to Onomichi. I was impressed with how they were able to keep the centers rare. * I arrive in Onomichi and immediately notice how quiet and old the station looks. I check out the various gift stores and almost everything is lemon themed and they're even selling bags of lemons. * My new hotel is also pretty nice and even more spacious. * One thing Onomichi is famous for is their own style of ramen where they leave chunks of pork fat in the broth which makes it extra rich and velvety. * Then I try a juice tasting of 3 varieties of orange. **Day 8 (Onomichi -&gt; Hiroshima):** * So the original reason I stopped here was to do the Shimanami Kaido, but as you might remember my ankle is fked. I decided to still stop by and see how I feel (or even consider a e-bike rental) but ultimately I decide against it. * My first impressions of the city are amazing. I was already considering staying here for 3-4 days possibly. Just a beautiful small town vibe nestled away between mountains and ocean, with very cool narrow alleyways to explore. * My ankle was messed so I head to the ropeway to take the cable car up. Unfortunately it was under construction (just my luck) so I have to hike up. I asked someone and they said it would only take 30 minutes though. So maybe an hour for me. * The viewpoints along the way were stunning though. * At the very top. * The region is famous for growing citrus so I try a bunch of citrus snacks. Mikan ice cream with lemonade, mandarin orange pudding, hassaku jelly. * I go through Cat Alley on my way back down. A group of alleyways famous for having a bunch of stray cats and cat themed art, cafes, etc. There wasn't much going on here tbh. * I head back to the shopping arcade (I passed by in the morning) and everywhere was still closed. At this point I realized they weren't going to open today, for whatever reason. * Even walking through the streets almost every store was closed and there were hardly any people walking around. * I went to some museum and asked the guy at the front desk why everywhere was closed. We had a bit of a language barrier but I could understand \"shuumatsu\" which means weekend and \"yasumi\" which means break or holiday. I couldn't find anything online about any holidays however, so interpreted it as they are taking a break until the weekend because it isn't busy here. It was seriously dead in town. I felt like I was in a movie walking around some city after some post apocalyptic disaster. * He recommends I visit this temple and city hall before I leave. I go. * While I had originally thought I could spend 3-4 nights here, I decided to leave as my hotel was booked up and the uncertainty of whether or not anywhere will be open tomorrow. * I'm the only person on the train platform. Where the hell is everybody? * I arrive in Hiroshima, and holy shit my hotel room is huge. Love it. **Day 9 (Hiroshima):** * I head to Peace Park. It was quite interesting to learn about this torch and how it's apparently been kept burning for 80 years straight. * I didn't see many tourists at all surprisingly. Aside from groups of students it was very quiet. * The famous Atomic Bomb Dome. Pretty incredible it survived. There were also some trees that survived and still stand which is even more insane. * Shopped for some pottery. Probably spent half an hour picking out just two bowls. * Went to Hiroshima Castle after which is conveniently 5 min away. * Then I went to Don Quiote to buy a suitcase to fill with gifts. * I went to Okonomimura, which is an entire building full of only okonomiyaki food stalls and tried Hiroshima style okonomiyaki. It was dead there, I was like 1 of 3 people. First time trying okonomiyaki. Not as good as people made it out to be. * But the rest of the downtown area is actually incredibly vibrant. considering how quiet the rest of the city seemed. Lots of people and lots of stores. * Walked back to the hotel through Peace Park. Had no idea the memorial, torch and dome all lined up. Stunning to see. **Day 10 (Hiroshima -&gt; Miyajima Island):** * Started the morning off on a ferry to Miyajima Island. I saw a burger vending machine along the way. Not sure how that works. Didn't want to find out. * First impression on the island, it was actually very, very busy which surprised me because I didn't see that many tourists in Hiroshima. * Saw the famous \"floating\" Torii Gate (Itsukushima). * Obligatory deer pic because they're everywhere. Here's a naughty deer eating this lady's food. * Hiked up the mountain to this cool restaurant with a beautiful view. Ate some curry and matcha with a momiji. * Visited a temple with a beautiful lantern room. I'm not sure if it's appropriate to take a photo here, but I did. * Because of my ankle I took the ropeway up to the top of Mt Misen, little did I know I'd still have to hike 30 minutes to get there. * Came back down to check out the market street. I try a fried momiji manju which is apparently only sold on Miyajima and a local specialty. God it was so damn good. I wish I bought more. For real if you guys come you need to try it. * I get some matcha ice cream. This was THE BEST matcha ice cream I've ever had. * I head back to Hiroshima. I catch the second last ferry. So there's lots to do on Miyajima. * I head to the Christmas Market. But to be honest it kind of sucked. Pricey and nothing was really special to me as a foreigner. * I try some expensive Japanese strawberries for the first time. Good but nothing special either IMO. **Day 11 (Hiroshima -&gt; Matsuyama):** * I check out of my hotel and at this point I don't even know where to go next. I was planning to go Fukuoka but the hotel prices were unreasonable IMO so end up deciding on Matsuyama, which I know nothing about aside from it's in Ehime where they grow oranges. * I take a high speed ferry which only takes 70 minutes, and foreigners get half price tickets. * I arrive in Matsuyama and immediately I can tell it's a much smaller city. The train looked pretty old school and the station was made of exposed wood with paint chipping off. * I go to Starbucks and finally try the matcha donut and latte. I had seen it passing by many times and it looked really good. It was pretty good, but overall donuts in Japan haven't impressed me. Seem to be more focused on the glazing/icing than the donut quality. * You can immediately see everywhere is orange themed. * I head over to Matsuyama Castle, but along the way I come across a sweet potato expo. How could I not stop by? * Here's the offerings. I got \\#1 and \\#5. I literally just picked the two longest lines. Didn't have time to try the rest. * I head up to Matsuyama Castle. I accidentally hike up and take the cable car back down thinking it was going up so I had to hike up again. * Inside they have very cool displays of Samurai armor and weapons. You can even hold a sword to feel the weight. * From the top you have an incredible view. Imagine being an emperor or daimyo overlooking the city from here. * I eat hamburger steak curry with cheese. Interesting combination, but it worked. * My hotel room here looks decent, but it was a terrible stay. I could hear people all night long and screaming kids running and crying. **Day 12 (Matsuyama):** * On the brightside breakfast had a nice buffet selection. Here they have 5 kinds of orange juice on tap * I try Taimeshi which is a local specialty. * I go to Dogo Onsen which is allegedly the oldest onsen in Japan. * I try my first onsen experience. It was nice and very affordable. Got some tea and wagashi after. I kept thinking of how this would probably cost at least $50 back home. * I go to the shopping arcade nearby. * Lots of juice bars offering dozens of types of citrus juice. I taste 9 more. * I see an orange claw machine. * I buy some towels at a flagship towel store. I just find out today that apparently Imabari (which is like 50km away) is famous for making towels and many flagship stores are in Matsuyama. * I go to this famous viewpoint in the city. * There's a very vibrant red temple on top. * I go to Dogo Park, and go to another viewpoint. * I eat some random food from an expensive department store. This cost like $30 no joke. * I get some orange flavored ice cream. **Day 13 (Matsuyama -&gt; Tokyo):** * I eat Nabeyaki udon which is a local style of udon with a sweeter broth. * I visit some shopping arcades. * I head to the airport to fly back to Tokyo. * I visit Ueno Park Christmas Market which was only a few stalls, nothing really Christmas themed. There was live stage music and the singer was pretty good though. * I think I spend the rest of the day shopping for gifts. **Day 14** * I visit Kappabashi Street but I'm mostly disappointed. Not much of the stuff was handmade and a lot of it wasn't even made in Japan. Really need to be careful if you're particular about what you're looking for. * I mostly just shop and eat. * I try an A5 wagyu beef garlic bowl. * Ramen from a chain, I forgot the name. * Hokkaido Milk soft serve. Not sure how different this is from that Cremia stuff but I didn't want to make the trip with such little time left. * Dandan Ramen with soup dumplings. Pretty sure this is Chinese fusion but I saw it in quite a lot of places so I wanted to try it. * I try more A5 wagyu with hamburger steak. * After trying those two \"A5 wagyu\" I regret not finding a Kobe beef place. I don't think it's even close to what Kobe would be like. * I visit Shibuya Crossing on my way back. I wasn't really interested in going but I felt I should before I leave. Very underwhelming, but I mean it's literally just a crosswalk, right? Lol. * I walk around Shinjuku, Harajuku and Otemosando. Otemesando was quite impressive to me. They had practically every luxury brand you could think of there, and even very niche ones. **Day 15** * More last minute gift shopping before flying out at night. * Eating more food but nothing special. I try more ramen and my first takoyaki in Japan. **Final Thoughts:** **Food:** * The food in Japan is generally affordable. Some of the konbini bentos are insanely cheap. There's always meals to be had under 1000JPY. * Overall the quality standard is quite decent, I never had a \"bad\" meal. * My favorite meal might be Ichiran ramen if I'm being honest? * My favorite snack would be the matcha ice cream from Miyajima. * Things I regret? I regret not trying Kobe beef. I regret not booking ahead of time and trying an expensive omakase experience. This one might sound ridiculous but I also regret not trying pizza in Tokyo or Mos Burger. * My focus was more on wanting to try a lot of regional specialties. So while there's a lot I didn't get to eat, I still ate a lot of lesser known regional dishes that I would never be able to find back home. **Transit:** * Tokyo's transit is great, but you should still be prepared to walk a lot. * Is it me or is transit kind of expensive? I think it was only after I left I heard about the 1500JPY 3 day unlimited pass. But even in Kyoto and Matsuyama I was taking short trips for like $4-8 one way and then I'd have to pay going back or take multiple busses. * Taxi and Uber was pricey so I avoided it for the most part, but I did still use it occasionally. I travelled across the world to be here, I'll pay an extra $30 to save an hour if I have to. * I regret not activating Go or Didi beforehand. I couldn't get the verification codes while here. **Japanese Etiquette:** * I only encountered a few rude/cold people my entire trip, but that's far less than I would back home. * I think I can count on my hand even the number of times I heard a car honk. I heard more driving to work today than I did the entire trip. * The \"irasshaimase's\" will never cease to amaze me. As an introvert the dedication to blurt that out to every customer from across the restaurant is impressive. * Ichiran staff are very well trained. Friendly, efficient, fast and polite. The guy who gave me my ramen did a 90 degree bow for 5 whole seconds. * I did feel like a lot of Japanese people weren't that open to talking compared to other places I've been. **Hotels:** * Not the cheapest, especially for the size of the rooms. I enjoyed most of the places I stayed, but a couple were terrible and the main reason was the soundproofing. I could hear stuff all night long whether it was a train, the shower running or some kids jumping around. * Overall it seemed like I had my best experiences at foreign owned hotel chains. **Language Barrier:** * While I did learn some basic Japanese I didn't find it to be that much of an issue at all. Many things were written in English and announcements even recorded in English. * Even when I spoke Japanese, many clerks would just answer back in English. **What I'd do differently:** * I'd book some higher end restaurant experiences. * I'd bring a second luggage from the start of the trip and just pay for luggage transfer. * If I see a regional specialty snack or something, I'd just buy it. I kept hearing people say \"just buy it in Tokyo\" well, I couldn't find some stuff and when you're rushing on you final days it's not the best time to be scrambling around looking for a snack. If you have the space available just get it now. * I'd look into the thing where you buy the ticket for the final destination like say Fukuoka and just hop on and off at Kyoto, Hiroshima, etc instead of buying separate shinkansen tickets. * I'd look into buying the unlimited 3 day transit pass. * I'd probably get a Suica card but it wasn't really a big deal not having one. * I'd bring back more snacks with short shelf lives. There's a lot of really good stuff with a \\~1 week shelf life. I might be pigging out that week, but you might never try that again without going to Japan. * I wouldn't pack bulky clothes again. I brought this fleece that I ended up not wanting to wear and it took up so much space in my carry-on luggage. That really affected me buying certain souvenirs/snacks. **Opinion of Japan:** Japan is a great place to travel, surprisingly easy for English speakers as well. Good mix of food, nature, temples and vibrant city life. I'd love to come back and there's many places I already want to explore. It wasn't as cheap as I expected it to be considering how low the yen is right now, but I guess that just shows how unaffordable it would have been 5-10 years ago. Most of what I found \"expensive\" was the hotels. I guess with more planning/deal sniping they could be booked significantly cheaper though. I'm excited that everyone can now visit Japan much more affordably, but there are definitely a ton of tourists right now which might bother people. We all know about Japan's population issues, and it makes me wonder what Japan will be like in 10-20 years. What will happen to many of the charming stores run by elderly people or the traditions that the new generation might not be interested in?"}
{"id": "0055", "text": "Trip Report: 7D6N Osaka-Fukuoka This was my second visit to Japan but was my first solo trip. I didnt know any Japanese. I was nervous and excited at the same time. The trip turned out to be very enjoyable overall despite some hiccups (I almost lost my passport on one day). Below is my trip report. Will definitely do another one next year, probably for longer duration and will probably learn some basic conversational Japanese too. **Day 1 (Osaka)** * Reached Osaka at 10:30am, cleared immigration for 1 hour, took another hour to get JR pass and IC card (the queues were quite long). * Took Nankai Rapid Train to Namba, it was good. Took me awhile a figure out where my hotel is because Namba is so big (more like a Shinjuku version of Osaka). * Checked in hotel and went for super late lunch at random shop at Namba. * Went to get my Osaka metro pass, took me awhile to find the place too. * Walked around Dontonburi &amp; Shinsaibashi * By 5pm, I nearly crashed due to lack of sleep from night flight so I went back to hotel for a nap and wanted to call it a day, but then I happened to see some clips of Xmas light-up in Mido-suji on TikTok. In the end, I went out again at 7pm, to stroll the streets to admire the trees and leaves. * Came back around 9pm to wash up and sleep **Day 2 (Osaka)** * Got up at 6:30am and realised how short the day was in winter in Japan (basically 7am-5pm), had my favourite breakfast in convenience store (random Onigiri and black coffee) * Visit a few parks (Nakanoshima, Minamitenma, Old Fujita House Gardens). I only planned to visit Nakanoshima but they are side by side long the river so I ended up walking along the whole stretch. Beautiful foliage sceneries, I took a lot of photos and some videos. * I had bought some food from Don Donki and had lunch in the one of the parks, quite a new experience to me. * Headed to Tennoji Park, there was a Xmas fair with lots of food and decorations), continue strolling, enjoying the beautiful foliage. * Watched Tsutenkaku tower from nearby market and had late lunch in random shop there. * Headed to Umeda Sky Building. From Umeda metro station, there was apparently a short-cut walkway to the building but somehow Google Map suggested for me to take a detour long the highway (lol), new experience walking in winter wind along high way though. * Visited Umeda Sky Building, the transparent elevator, caught the sunset on Umeda rooftop then visited the Koji Kinutani Tenku Art museum. * Back to Namba for dinner, visit Ghibli shop, and walking around looking for Eki Stamps. Took me awhile to search and found out that the Namba stamp is in tourist information centre, but I reached the centre at 8:01pm and it closed at 8:00pm lol. Disappointed, I took a few train rides to collect 2 stamps from Osaka station, lol. * Back to hotel, wash up and sleep **Day 3 (Osaka - Fukuoka)** * Got up, breakfast with Onigiri &amp; black coffee again (Im kinda addicted to this combo), packed up and checked out, heading to Fukuoka * I took 8:40am JR train from Shin Osaka to Hakata (Fukuoka) using Sanyo-Sanin region pass * I stayed at an APA hotel by Gion Station (followed one of the video on Youtube of a solo traveller), put luggage at concierge and headed to Maizuru Parks * Visited Maizuru and Fukuoka Castle Ruins, the foliage was much more beautiful in Fukuoka than Osaka, tbh, I was at awe (I live in Singapore and there was no such thing there) * Came back to hotel to check in, re-organise my backpack and headed to Ohori Park * The park was huge, seeing people cycling along the lake kinda made me want to rent a bike too. I missed the entrance time to Japanese garden (close at 4pm), so I was just strolling in the park and again admiring the beautiful scenery * After sunset, I took random strolls in the streets of Daimyo, surprisingly there were not a lot of restaurants there and all the menu were in Japanese characters (I cant read Japanese). I was relying on Chinese characters to guess the menu and instructions in ordering machine, lol. Had an interesting dinner, its called Bikkuri-tei Honke (based on Google Lens) * Back to hotel, rest, wash up and sleep **Day 4 (Fukuoka)** * Got up, had Sukiyaki for breakfast and came back to a horror that my passport is not in my bag. But I still decided to go for the Klook day tour that I bought and figure out the passport thing later. In the back of my mind, I was kinda prepared to extend my stay in Fukuoka if needed, to re-do my passport. * It was a good tour, cost saving on the transport. Visited Dazaifu, Frog Temple, Yufuin Village and Kirin Lake. I was also one of the lucky draw customer who got the free freshly made daifuku at some specialty shop near Dazaifu. * Probably affected by the passport, my mind was a little dazed, I forgot my phone charging cable (for power bank use) and cash, so didnt manage to take a lot of photos and didnt get a try a lot of food neither, what a pity. * Came back to hotel to the notification that my passport is at concierge (apparently it was dropped on the corridor after I checked in lols). I was super relieved. * Went to Nakasu Yatai by the river, ate ramen, gyoza and had Japanese plum wine to relax, then visited Canal City for fountain light show and bought Ghibli stuffs again.. * Back to hotel, rest, wash up and sleep **Day 5 (Fukuoka)** * Breakfast at Lawson, with Onigiri and black coffee again (Im seriously addicted) * Headed to Nanzoin Temple and had lunch at nearby shop * Spent my afternoon trying to find bike rental but failed. I couldnt register Charichari because they dont have Singapore number code in the list, tried my moms Vietnamese phone number and it didnt work too. Found a physical rental store in the basement of Hakata station but it required 3-day in advance booking and there was no English instructions (only Japanese and Korean) * I went to Teamlab Fukuoka, a minor hiccup happened on the bus. As I boarded the bus, I saw the girl in front of me not tapping her IC card, so I thought you only need to tap when alight, and I didnt tap in. When I got out, my IC card of course showed errors, the bus captain only spoke Japanese, and I couldnt understand a single thing he said. At first, I took out my cash to pay, but he shook his head. After a few seconds of staring at him and listening to his Japanese, I heard an English word station, so I made a guess that he asked what station I got on, and I replied Gion-machi. Thanks goodness, it was correct, he keyed in the station name in his machine and I was able to tap out with my IC card. I didnt know how to say sorry in Japanese, so I just bowed and got off. From then on, I always remembered to tap twice on the bus, tap in and tap out, lol. * I played for 1.5 hours at Teamlab, somehow they allowed me to play two rounds across all rooms. * Ate sushi for dinner in nearby shopping malls, the selection of sushi were very interesting * Back to hotel, rest, wash up and sleep **Day 6 (Fukuoka)** * My usual breakfast at Lawson * Visited Tenjin Park, there was Xmas decoration but it wasnt opened in morning * I spent the rest of the day at Fukuoka Zoo &amp; Botanic Gardens. It was a huge complex with beautiful animals and sceneries. * Dinner at Tenjin, tried out big size Tonkatsu, super delicious. * Went for some shopping of Japanese snacks **Day 7 (Osaka)** * Checked out from hotel and took JR train to Namba, Osaka * Put luggage at coin locker and headed for lunch and some more snacks shopping * Took Nankai Rapid to Kansai Airport, need to take another shuttle bus to Terminal 2 (which is very small), and you need to walk out to the plane (no bus) and they scanned the boarding pass at the building door to the plane (this was new to me). I was flying with Peach Airline, it was ultra-budget, first time trying this airline, so that explains. A few interesting observations I had: (1) There are so many korean tourists, keep hearing korean almost everywhere I went, so at times I was able to know whats happening by listening to the korean (I know conversational korean) (2) Restaurants serve a cup of cold water even during cold weather, no option of warm water, interestingly."}
{"id": "0056", "text": "Hi everyone, I wanted to post a trip report from our second time to Japan. We went in November for three weeks and basically followed the foliage throughout our trip. In general, were pretty aggressive with our trips and usually wake up on the earlier side and crash by 9 or 10pm. Were not night owls or party people. Day 1: 11/6: Arrival into Tokyo We arrived in Tokyo, picked up our JR Pass, checked into our hotel. Went to go see Tokyo tower at night, get some food, then crashed. Day 2: 11/7: Tokyo to Sapporo We activated our 7-day JR pass here and started our travel day up to Sapporo. We took the Shinkansen to Hakodate, then the limited express to Sapporo. Our train left at 6:30ish in the morning and we got to Sapporo around 2:00pm. Since we were coming from the US, the early morning was perfect and this allowed us to rest the whole way. We sprung for the green car pass as well so it was nice and we didnt have to navigate another airport while still getting the afternoon/evening in Sapporo. It started snowing about halfway on the limited express train and was beautiful to watch from the train. We explored Sapporo station area on arrival then checked into our hotel at 3pm. We explored shops around Sapporo and had miso ramen, which was the best ramen weve ever had. Day 3: 11/8 Sapporo We woke up, got some delicious coffee at Love Espresso, then went up the Sapporo TV Tower (worth it) then went to the old Sapporo factory mall, then the Sapporo museum and beer garden. Got Genghis Khan at the beer garden right when they opened at 11:30 am. You do have to get a reservation ticket from the museum but if youre early there wont be a problem. We then went back to the room to rest for a bit and catch a second wind before heading out shopping, exploring, and visiting the arcade. That night we had Yakitori near Odori park before calling it a night. Day 4: 11/9 Sapporo to Hakodate We woke up early and headed over to Hokkaido University. We like exploring college campuses when we travel and this was a nice one! There is a street lined with Ginko trees that was very pretty as well. We then checked out and hit up a street market for Oysters and a Salmon bowl (both some of the best seafood we had the entire trip). We took the limited express to Hakodate and got in around 5pm. We went out for sushi then walked around the red-brick storehouse district which had christmas lights and was quite pretty. Unfortunately our plan to go up to the top of Mt. Hakodate was squashed as the gondola was not working and could only be reached by private car or hiking, which we did not have time for. We called it a night after walking around a bit. Day 5: 11/10: Hakodate to Hirosaki We got up early in Hakodate and got a taxi to Cape Tachimachi to see the sunrise. Beautiful spot and made Hakodate feel worth it. We then got a Taxi to the old Public Hall and walked through the historic district back to the fish market where we had breakfast. Then we took the train to Hakodate Station and caught a 9:30 ish shinkansen to Shin Aomori. We then took a local train to Hirosaki and then dropped our bags off at the hotel since we were there a few hours before check-in. We went to the Roman Tea room for lunch (recommend) and then explored the Castle and two botanical gardens. Unplanned but it was the last day of their fall festival which was so fun to join. The leaves here were at peak and I got some amazing photographs this day. After that we made our way back to our hotel but got stopped by a Fuji worshiping cult. We didnt go with them like they wanted but that was a notable experience lol. We did laundry this night at our hotel. Day 6: 11/11: Hirosaki to Aomori to Morioka Woke up early and explored the castle grounds again, then got coffee and breakfast at a little mom-and-pop place before checking out and catching a limited express train to Aomori. We only stayed in Aomori for an hour or so to do the Nebuta Museum and A-Factory. We planned on longer but got bored and decided to make our way to Morioka earlier (good call). Took the train to Morioka and checked into our hotel on arrival. Got Morioka Jajamen for lunch then went to the castle ruins and walked around before heading back to the room for a quick recharge. Then went out shopping and dinner at an Izakaya. Day 7: 11/12: Morioka to Kakunodate Spent the morning in Morioka and walked to Hoonji Temple. Got an early lunch at Karakoma (vegan place that was VERY good). Then took the train to Kakunodate. We booked an old Samurai warehouse that was turned into a little townhouse. It was huge and worth the experience. We walked around the village, got ramen for dinner, and called it earlier to recharge and enjoy our fancy accommodations. Day 8: 11/13: Kakunodate to Sendai to Toyama Last day of our JR pass so we made alot of use of it! Explored Kakunodate again in the morning then got the train to Sendai. We gave ourselves about 5 hours in Sendai so we got soybean milkshakes and went to the Zuihden grave / temple area. Very pretty. Had lunch at an Izakaya that had lunch specials near the station. Got some taiyaki and shopped for a bit. Then got the train to the outskirts of Tokyo to transfer and go to Toyama. Checked into our hotel in Toyama and went out for Sushi (Toyama is famous for it). Day 9: 11/14: Toyama to Takayama Woke up early and explored Toyama. Went up the observation tower and visited the glass art museum (cheap and in a beautiful building/library). Then went to the Japanese sword museum and had Sushi again for lunch. Got our bags and headed by train to Takayama. For the first time in our trip we felt like we were in a tourist town and it was a bit of a shock lol, we adjusted (were also tourists afterall). We went to both the retro museums and had dinner a bit off the beaten path and it was very very tasty. Day 10: 11/15: Takayama Woke up early and walked to Hida no Sato open air museum. Highly recommend if youre not going to Shinagawa-go like we were not. There is a wood carver there off to the side where you can see him at work and buy his goods. I got an owl and it is probably my most treasured souvenir from Japan. We walked back to our hotel and stopped to get some sweets and hit up the grocery store on the way. Then we went to lunch at Wabisuki (best soba Ive had and I keep thinking about the duck soup I had). Then walked to Hie Shrine (another amazing fall foliage spot) and walked through the big park complex nature path area nearby to get back to the historic district. Hit up the sake brewery then went back to the room to finish up laundry and rest for a couple of hours. Went out for Takoyaki since most other places needed a reservation on a Friday night. Not disappointed though, the guy making them was from Osaka and was very friendly. Day 11: 11/16: Takayama to Fukuji Onsen (Ryokan) Slept in whattttt. We were tired and the next day or so was about rest so we slept in a bit, got coffee and breakfast, then took the bus out to Fukuji Onsen where our Ryokan was located. Enjoyed the night there, had A5 Hida beef, did Ryokan things and called it a night. Day 12: 11/17: Fukuji Onsen to Takayama to Nagoya Woke up and had breakfast at the Ryokan, then took the bus to Takayama where we killed a few hours at a matcha shop and our favorite grocery store. Took the train to Nagoya and then checked into our hotel. Walked around Odori Park and went up the Electric tower (eh, ok to skip). Went out for udon then walked around and enjoyed the Christmas decor and shopped a bit before crashing for the night Day 13: 11/18 Nagoya/Ghibli Park We got Ghibli park tickets so that ate up most of the day. We got Unagi for dinner and purchased limited express tickets for the next day to Nagiso. Day 14: 11/19 Nakasendo Trail day tripfrom Nagoya We did the Nakasendo Trail this day but did it backwards from what most people do so it was mostly uphill. We walked from Nagiso, through Tsumago, then ended in Magome. Great hike, loved it, got soba for lunch in Tsumago. After getting back in Nagoya we did some laundry and went out for Yakitori. Day 15: 11/20 Nagoya to Tokyo This was our travel day from Nagoya to Tokyo so we checked out of our hotel and got a locker for our bags in Nagoya station. We then went to go explore Nagoya castle and the palace and got a healthy vegan lunch before catching the train to Tokyo. We stayed in the Nihonbashi area of Tokyo, it was quiet and the hotel was nice but a bit of a walk to the station. I definitely recommend being 5 minutes or less not 10 like we were from your closest station. It just added time when you want to be bouncing around. That night we went to Skytree to do tourist things and went to the aquarium. Had a burger because my system needed some western food at that point. Days 16-21: Tokyo Days 16-21 were in Tokyo. I wont go into extensive detail here as this was mostly exploring different parts, going shopping, and having fun. My favorite places are Akihabara and Naka-meguro. Most overrated i think was Korea town, honestly feel like we have way better Korean food back in the states. I found that with the Vietnamese we tried as well. Japanese food in Japan is legit the best but Id never tried international food internationally (if that makes sense) before and was kinda disappointed. Day 21: 11/26 Last day with a late flight out of Tokyo so we explored the city in the morning before getting to the airport Take aways/tips: For us, we were worried we were going too hard in the beginning of the trip, but we didnt. Absolutely the best and I loved north Japan. Toyama was probably the most surprising nice city to stop by. Im kind of done with Tokyo. I know there is a lot but after spending 5 days our first trip and 6 days our second trip, I think Im going to keep it to 3 or less on any future trips. Wear comfy shoes, simple clothes, and plan to do laundry. Keeps you light and able to navigate easier."}
{"id": "0057", "text": "Hello, it's my second trip to japan, first time going to Nagano. It was only 4 days but I wanted to share my experience with you all because it was a lot better than I expected. I travel solo, originally from Spain. DAY 1 - Zenkoji Temple. It was very beautiful. The temple grounds are very big and it feels very old and calm even with many people around.On the way to Zenkoji there are many shops and the overall atmosphere is very good. I also ate Oyaki which is typical from nagano. DAY 2 - Togakushi. The path to the shrine is super beautiful. There were many big cedar trees and it feels like you are in a different world. There is also a Ninja museum that was interesting! I ate soba that day, it was my first time eating soba and it was pretty good. DAY 3 - Countryside tour. There was some activity called \"Picking Pears and Cook Onigiri\" tour. A married couple in the countryside are doing it and it was a trully wonderful experience. You can see and pick fruits and vegetables in the farm in the outskirts of Nagano city. They spoke in English and were very friendly. They live in a reformed warehouse. It's more than 100 years old. We also had lunch together, we cooked some onigiri together! Some Onigri and vegetable dishes were super good. I never had an experience like that, but it felt very close to what life in the countryside would be in Japan. I happened to find it by chance, and I don't think it's very known, so I would like to share the link if somebody is interested in an experience like this: https://www.facebook.com/sachiko.nakagome.7 DAY 4 - Obuse. I went manly for the Hokusai museum (I love the art), the city is also pretty and quiet. I was a bit tired so it was perfect for the last day. I ate some rice with chestnuts that day, I don't remember the name, but it was surprisingly good. Conclusion Nagano was a perfect escape from more busy locations like Tokyo or Kyoto. There is a lot of nature, even in the city, and getting to know some of the locals and getting closer to the rural life was an incredible experience for me. I guess it's not for everybody, but as someone who loves japan, I feel very lucky."}
{"id": "0058", "text": "Just returned from a trip to the Hyogo region - Thought I would leave this here as a reference for others. (Sorry for the lousy formatting - typed this on my phone) Day 1 - Landed in KIX, Headed for Kobe - Cleared custom at KIX and left straight for Kobe via the JR Osaka loop line + Tokaido Sanyo Line - Had dinner at Sannomiya area - - awesome miso tonkatsu and katsudon (Credits to @japaneat on YouTube for Kobe food recommendations - check out the channel here - https://m.youtube.com/@japaneat?fbclid=PAY2xjawG7J05leHRuA2FlbQIxMAABpiqkk-7t5TyF8ECsMglwakYU0GaHBD7BQWmaoUxDo292-fIrPEGeQsOMbA_aem_7zA_USFMCKGQnKn5ygsxeA) Day 2 - Kobe (Herb garden, Nunobiki falls) &gt; Himeji (Sannomaru Square) - Took the gondola up to the herb gardens which was a pretty nice place for a morning stroll. - Bought the return ticket initially as it was raining but as the rain subsided we decided to trek down towards Nunobiki falls which ended up being the highlight of the day. There was a restaurant () on the way down overlooking the area but decided to forgo it in view of time. - Left for Himeji via the Tokaido Sando line - Grabbed dinner near Gofukumachi and went to see a night view of Himeji castle from Sannomaru Square Day 3 - Himeji (Mt Shosha, Himeji Castle) - Left early for Mt Shosha via the Ropeway - definitely the highlight for me in Himeji; Awesome to see the area with the autumn leaves all around - Grabbed a late lunch from the combini and left for Himeji castle / Koko-en before it was closed for the day - Left Himeji castle around sunset; dinner and called it a day Day 4 - Himeji &gt; Takeda - Spent some time in the morning exploring the area around Himeji station - Took the Bantan Line bound for Takeda. Always enjoyed the rides towards the countryside - Checked in at our accoms in Takeda and left for nearby Wadayama station to stock up on supplies before our early climb to Takeda castle the following day. - Ended up walking for 15-20mins to the nearest supermart in the rain; On our way back it was completely dark but we managed to find a small eatery ( ) still open for dinner (Tsukesoba was awesome) Day 5 - Takeda (Takeda Castle) &gt; Kinosaki Onsen - Woke up before the break of dawn for the climb up Takeda Castle; the steep climb was made difficult with the morning rain and recent cold wave (it was only 5C during the climb), but it was all worth it for the view at the top - Didn't manage to see the sea of clouds due to the cold wave though - Descended around late morning, ended up at Hyomai shrine and hiked to the nearby Lawson for some hot coffee - Went back to the accoms, rested until our next train time and left for Kinosaki Onsen via the Bantan Line + San-In Line - Dropped our luggage off; went up the Kinosaki Onsen ropeway and ended up hiking down from Onsenji station - Checked in, grabbed our Onsen pass from our accoms and went Onsen hopping in the 6 available public onsens (Satano-yu is still undergoing renovation) - Had an hearty sukiyaki teishoku dinner at near the train station Day 6 - Kinosaki Onsen - Checked out of our first accoms in Kinosaki Onsen and checked in to our first Ryokan () for the trip - Did an impromptu trip to toyooka and bought some (slightly cheaper than the Kinosaki Onsen region); More Onsen hopping - Had an awesome kaiseki meal at the Ryokan in our rooms (steamed crab was was perfect) Day 7 - Kinosaki Onsen &gt; Miyazu (Ine day trip) - Checked out early after breakfast at our Ryokan and left for Miyazu via the San-In line + Tantetsu line (Unable to use the IC card on the Tantetsu line) - Checked in at our Ryokan in Miyazu (which was in a museum) and left for Ine via the bus from Miyazu station - Enjoyed the seaviews and the seaside town vibes at Ine (Views from Ine Cafe and Funaya-no-sato park were great) - Headed back to Miyazu and had a cheap but delicious dinner at (conveyor belt sushi - only one outlet in Japan from what I can find) Day 8 - Miyazu &gt; Amanohashidate &gt; Osaka - Checked out early after breakfast and left for Amanohashidate where we stored our luggage - Walked across Amanohashidate park; went up to Amanohashidate Viewland via the chair lift - Took a highway bus from Amanohashidate back to Osaka around noon. Was lucky to secure seats without reservation and broken Japanese Day 8-10 - Osaka - Spent the time at Osaka doing the usual stuff (Dontonbori - the crowds were crazy compared to my previous trip 6 years prior; Shopping and getting lost in the labyrinth called Umeda station, trying Glitch Coffee Osaka, etc) - Eating my favourite takoyaki from (Awesome takoyaki chain in Osaka) Main takeaway from this trip - Book highway buses in advance as much as possible. I still can recall the anxiety from waiting at the bus stop in Amanohashidate; hoping for an empty seat. -If you are heading to the countryside: -&gt; Bring sufficient cash and keep some loose change on hand (especially when paying for transportation) -&gt;Pack light if you are not driving; Accomodations in the countryside can be quite far from the city center or train station . (Brought a Osprey Farpoint 55 for the whole trip) - Waterproof (or at least water-resistant) jackets are lifesavers in autumn, given the perpetual light rain. The Uniqlo Blocktech jacket did me good on this trip"}
{"id": "0059", "text": "This is our 3rd time to Japan but first time visiting Kyushu! The focus of our trip was shopping and eating, and one night at a ryokan. I loved that Fukuoka and Kumamoto are not as crowded or big as Tokyo, Kyoto and Osaka, and its easier to find your way around by bus or train. Surprisingly, a lot of people spoke a bit of english and many restaurants had English translated menus. My favorite part was how festive everything is! We happened to go to multiple Christmas markets, and all the malls are decked out in winter decorations. Hope this trips report helps anyone planning to travel to Fukuoka or Kumamoto. Feel free to ask any questions! **Day 1 (Fukuoka, Hakata)** - Arrived in Fukuoka Airport in the evening and took the bus into the city - Explored **Hakata Station** which has a lot of underground food courts, as well as several department stores (Hands, Hankyu, AMU) and shops all interconnected by the station. - Spent time at the **Christmas Market** which was right in the outdoor plaza by Hakata Station. Caught a live opera solo performance on stage. - Stayed in **ANA Crowne Plaza** which is about 5 minutes walking from Hakata Station. **Day 2 (Ohori Park, Tenjin, Canal City)** - Visited **Ohori Park** and the **Fukuoka Art Museum** (we went in mainly because it was raining, otherwise might have skipped it and explored or biked around the park). After the rain stopped we walked around the **Fukuoka Castle Ruins**. There were many birds at the park! - Went to **Bayside Place** and had sushi at **Hakata Toyoichi**. We got the to-go option where you pick up a plastic box and fill it up with nigiri from a buffet-like set up. Also checked out the mini aquarium fish tank inside one of the buildings, which was quite nice. (Originally wanted to take the ferry to an island but due to rain we skipped it.) - Spent the afternoon shopping around **Tenjin Underground Mall**. The underground mall has a European vibe, and is even more beautiful during Christmas season. We shopped at Muji, Uniqlo, Daiso, Mitsokushi. - Got souffl pancake from **A Happy Pancake Fukuoka Tenjin store**. Its a bit hidden as its entrance is a hole in the wall stairwell. Very nice spot to rest, away from the hustle and bustle. - Went to Canal City and shopped at **Snow Peak** inside **Alpen Fukuoka** (its like REI in the US, but even bigger) - Omakase at **Hakata Sushi Matsumoto**. We got the special weekday omakase which was the cheapest option (around $60) which is a steal booked in advance through Tabelog - **Christmas Market Forest** next to Fukuoka City Hall. Its so magical with all the picnic tables set up under the fairy lights and trees, but we only walked through it since it was raining pretty heavily - **Canal City Fountain Show**. Really cool design of fountains and light projections. There is one Gundam show, and the second show has a Christmas story. - Late night snack at **Yakitori Hachibei** in the underground of Hakata Station, and had a honey lemon sour **Day 3 (More shopping, Asakura)** - Shopped at **Maru-Take Kitchen Supplies** for some sake cups, and walked around the **Yanagibashi Rengo Market** which is a small traditional food market. We had tuna donburi at one of the food stalls but the portions were quite small and pricey. (Probably better value to just eat tuna sashimi from a supermarket.) - **Ramen Stadium** at Canal City. The ramen was good but nothing super special. We passed a tempura restaurant that looked really good.. wish we went for that instead - Returned to **Hakata Station** for more shopping in the lower level food shopping areas. Tried **Daimyo Soft Cream** ice cream. - Took a bus to **Asakura** for our stay at a traditional ryokan and onsen. Felt amazing to soak in the onsens after so much walking. They served Kaiseki dinner in our tatami room, the service was really great and food very satisfying. **Day 4 (Kumamoto)** - Took the train from Asakura to Kumamoto. Always love traveling by train in Japan! - Had conveyer belt sushi at **Sushi Restaurant Mekkemon** which was one of the best meals of the trip. The sushi just kept coming (you can take it from the conveyer belt or order on an iPad). We ordered all kinds of premium stuff like tuna, sweet shrimp, uni, scallops and it was super affordable and delicious - Shopping at **AMU Plaza**. It has a really beautiful atrium with a multiple-story waterfall and waterscaping, and many indoor trees and plants - Visited **Kumamoto Castle**. The park is quite beautiful and you can go inside the reconstructed castle. However all the exhibits labels are Japanese (they provide QR code for translated text, but personally I recommend using Google Translates camera option). It got pretty crowded and stuffy inside so I recommend going early in the morning. - Got Tofu Skin Ice Cream at one of the shops in **Sakura no baba Josaien** near the entrance of the castle - Shopping at **Sakura Machi** mall. We went to the upper roof garden as well which has a view of Kumamoto Castle in the distance. - Walking and shopping around **Shimotori Shopping Arcade** a large covered shopping street - We got turned away from a few restaurants in the area (busy Saturday night) so we returned to AMU Plaza. The 7F has a bunch of restaurant options along with window displays and menus to help you decide what to eat, and waiting lists, so we decided to try a yakitori restaurant. It turned out pretty good! - Walked around **Kumamoto Station Christmas Market** and enjoyed some hot chocolate brandy and live music - Stayed at **The Blossom Kumamoto**, its a fancy new hotel with beautiful indoor/outdoor architecture. Theres also a modern style public onsen for hotel guests. **Day 5** - Had breakfast buffet at The Blossom before taking the bus to Kumamoto Airport - At the airport we did some shopping for snacks to bring back home Overall it was a really awesome trip and we returned with our suitcases and bellies full. 5 days (more like 4 and a half) were definitely not long enough to slow down and enjoy Kyushu, and I know we missed a lot of the major attractions. We loved both Fukuoka and Kumamoto, and would likely come back to see more of the nature and cultural attractions in the future and try to make it to Kurozawa Onsen and Mt Aso. **Tips:** - Lots of places are still cash only. - Get Suica on Apple Wallet so you can just tap your phone for bus or subway - You can buy an eSIM (eg Ubigi) before the trip (its more expensive than getting a SIM in Japan but worth it for the convenience) - Bring your passport with you for Tax Free shopping - We walked a lot (4-10 miles per day), my shoe actually got a hole in it mid-trip so I bought a new pair bring sturdy and comfortable shoes! - Use Google Translates camera feature to translate signs and menus - Always check out vending machines for interesting drinks. My favorites were almond milk tea and a hot maple latte. - Its surprisingly annoying figuring out how to flush the toilet (could be a button/multiple buttons on the bidet control board, a separate button above or next to the control board, a traditional flush handle but its hidden behind the toilet seat, automatic flush, motion sensor/hand wave to flush). But at least every toilet is very clean and well maintained"}
{"id": "0060", "text": "**20th - 25th January 2024 Kyoto** **25th - 26th Hakone** Just thought I'd share my experiences no matter how repetitive/basic just in case it comes in handy for anyone. I travelled with my husband and caught up with 3 other friends while in Kyoto. Please feel free to ask any questions and if you have any feedback for anything we missed/shouldn't have done then please let me know because we're planning a second trip! See previous post for Osaka **Hotel:** * Hotel Forza Kyoto Shijo Kawaramachi - Very comfy stay. Great amenities including a free sake every evening. * The Machiya Kamiumeya - A traditional aesthetic hotel closer to Gion with tatami and futons * Suiun - Ryokan in Hakone **Weather:** It unexpectedly snowed while we were here! If it wasn't for illness getting in the way of our plans we definitely would have gone straight to the Golden Pavillion for a beautiful view of it capped with snow. Something we missed on purpose: **Arashiyama** \\- from reading posts on this sub it felt like it took up a large proportion of the day, felt rushed and just wall to wall with tourists doing it for the sake of hitting all the must do spots. We also had plans to go see the snow monkeys in Nagano. For this reason we decided to skip it and enjoy a slow paced few days here. But we didn't really experience large crowds while we were in Kyoto during our dates so I wonder if this was a mistake to miss out on. We are travelling back here in November next year and I'm in two minds on whether we make the point to go. **Day 1:** * Traveled from Osaka and dropped our bags at the hotel * **Nishiki market** 12:00pm - a decent amount of people walking through but easy to walk without being squished. No crazy lines for food. * Croquettes from Hanayori Kiyoe 10/10 * Marion Crepes 10/10 * Fish cakes from Houkyuuan 4/10 - probably really good and as you would expect but it was the first time we ever had non-Thai fish cakes and we didn't enjoy them * Yataai Mura STALL VILLAGE - got a 100 yen sake and regretted it, straight alcohol isn't for me. This place looked amazing and I wish we ate here but at the time we were full. There were stalls selling grilled seafood and tempura! * Walked around the area finding small temples * Checked into our hotel and headed back out to explore the shops around 4:30pm * **Nintendo store:** got an obligatory photo in front of the giant mario head. There was an attendant there taking photos for people. **Notable purchases;** * Blind bag collectable magnets featuring the old game covers * Yoshi egg bathbomb featuring a mystery coloured yoshi inside * Disney store, Edion - admiring all the different tech * **Pokemon store:** Exclusive Kyoto Pikachu plushie in a sweet little kimono!! * **Tokyu hands:** Dragon ball uno - unique rules! Ono 99 - a fun game! (We had also purchased pokemon uno in Osaka which also had unique rules) * Stumbled upon an underground cave styled restaurant that served unlimited lemon sour on tap. Yakitori was very nice but the drinks were a big mistake. We didn't realise how strong they were until it was too late. Lets just say til this day I still can't stomach Yakitori or lemon sours. **Day 2:** * We had already written this day off as a hangover day so we had low expectations * Enjoyed McDonalds in bed for lunch and tackled the laundry * Headed to **Shijo-dori** in **Gion** around 5pm - The stores closed at 7pm from memory. * **Notable purchase:** Chopsticks engraved with our names in both English and Kanji. Probably one of the best souvenirs we bought. Also had fun picking out unique novelty chopstick rests. * **Hanamikoji dori** \\- Absolutely beautiful to walk through as the sun was setting, only a few other people there * **Yasaka shrine:** 6pm - sun had completely set and the temple was lit up and absolutely stunning. There were a handful of couples walking around but I wouldn't say crowds so it was really peaceful. We walked around the grounds until we were starving. * **Dinner:** Gyukatsu Kyoto Katsugyu Gion Yasaka 6:30pm 12/10 - We randomly came across this place and it was the best 'stumble in' no plan dinner we had the entire trip. Tender beef katsu with a variety of dipping options including onsen egg which was my favourite. **Day 3:** * **Fushimi inari:** 7:30am - Only a handful of people on the way up. We weren't feeling too good so we were only there for half an hour and didn't walk up too far. * **Breakfast:** Walked around the area but nothing seemed open at the time (8:30am) Found Cafe goo. I can't even remember what I had so I wouldn't say it was very notable. But I do remember it was run by very lovely women and it was cosy. * We didn't expect to be back so early so we decided to walk around Gion without a map. * Kennin-ji - 9:30am - we were the only ones there. It was peaceful and beautiful. * Yasaka Koshin-do * Hokan-ji - 9:45am - maybe a handful of people but we were able to get some nice photos without anyone in the way. * I think the stores along the Sannen-zaka path only opened at 10:00am so we were able to enjoy the walk without the crowds * Once they opened we got some more engraved chopsticks and a set of very decorative tea mugs * Snack: Croquettes from Kikakuan okamoto Sanneizaka 10/10! * Walked down Ninenzaka and spent another hour getting lost * **Lunch:** My pet peeve on this trip was eating fast food and wasting opportunities to eat regional exclusive dishes! But travelling with a bunch of boys we ended up doing this quite a bit. KFC today and it wasn't even good. * Shopping * Daishodo Japanese Woodblock prints - found this store and loved looking at all the prints * Husband bought a few Dragon Ball figurines and they were the cheapest prices we found compared to Osaka and Tokyo * Onigiri - I can't find where it was but picked up some freshly made onigiri from a store and it was incredible! * Ochanokosaisai Nishiki - Got a sample of rice with their furikake - SOLD - bought two packets and regret not getting more. It is the most tasty furikake I have ever had. Exclusive to this store as far as I'm aware * **Round 1:** a good place to have some fun while you wait to work up an appetite * **Dinner:** Kairikiya - Ramen 8/10 with a side of gyoza and fried rice 10/10. Cheap too! * **Dessert:** Strawberry sandwich with custard and cream from 7-eleven - 7/10 Super fun but I feel like i'd enjoy it more if the bread was sweet too **Day 4: Nara day trip** * **Breakfast:** Egg sandwich from 7-eleven 10/10 still dream about these * Had a hard time making it to Nara this day getting lost in the train station and missing the direct train. Hopped on another train that terminated at a random station in the middle of nowhere and then had to buy a limited express ticket to finally make it to Nara * Caught the mochi pounding demonstation - 11:00am - wasn't a huge line. The mochi was so fresh and warm but no one in our group enjoyed the flavour * We were stopped by a group of lovely older ladies who wanted to practice their English with us. This happened quite often on our trip * Got a sweet potato from a vendor around the park. It was nice and warm but not sweet and didn't have much flavour at all. Note: The signs are priced 200 yen per 100g (I think?) and we were lined up behind a man who argued with the lady for a long time thinking it was meant to be 200 only. * I'm not sure if this is all throughout the year or just because it was winter but a lot of the deer looked quite skinny and malnourished, lots had balding patches in their fur, broken antlers and cataracts or missing eyes. It was quite a shock and unsettled me. * Todai-ji - beautiful * We walked around the park for maybe 2 hours before heading back to Kyoto * Lunch: Famichicki and some onigiri 10/10 * We stopped at Kyoto station and explored. Got a lovely view from the skyway including some incoming snow!! * Snack: Mister Donut - kind of stale 4/10 * Dinner: Niigata Katsudon Tarekatsu - 8/10 pork cutlet set meal with very salty pickles * Dessert: Naruto Taiyaki Honpo - 10/10 piping hot custard is always a great treat on a freezing cold night **Day 5:** Hotel transfer day * I went to get some 551 Horai takeaway from Daimaru and on my walk it started lightly snowing and did so for the rest of the day! This was an amazing surprise as we didn't expect to experience snow until our stay in Hakuba. * **Breakfast:** 551 Horai - 12/10 Pork buns and gyoza - this was my second time having them (went to Osaka first) I didn't have them enough, they were so juicy and the flavour is unlike anything I have had before. * We checked out of our hotel and used their luggage forwarding service to send our two suitcases to Tokyo as we were spending 1 night in Gion and the following night in Hakone. This was a simple process and the receptionist phoned the Tokyo hotel for us to confirm everything. I could be wrong but I think it was $24 (AUD). * Bought a sturdy tote bag with a cute shiba wearing glasses from a vendor in Shinkyogoku. * We had to go to a separate check in location for our next hotel which was located near Kyoto station. They gave us instructions on how to then locate and enter our accommodation. * **Lunch:** Katsudon from a restaurant in Kyoto station 12/10 delicious! I'm not sure what the correct name is because we had issues finding this in Japan. Back home Katsudon is rice with chicken katsu, sweet onions and an egg scrambled over top. In Japan we would search this term but only find pork katsu without egg/onion. Does anyone know the correct Japanese name for this dish? * **Coffee:** SOT Coffee Roaster - 10/10 can't fault the Matcha latte or matcha cheesecake we had! We sat on tatami and relaxed. * The Machiya Kamiumeya - our accommodation for the night. Tatami matts and futon beds. 10/10 aesthetic and exactly what we were after. But in the middle of the night we could head the pitter patter of tiny feet in the roof (or at least I hope it was the roof). I have no idea what it was and if it was rats I'd prefer not to know * We made our way to Kiyomizu-dera for the sunset which was obscured by clouds but nevertheless was beautiful. This time of year most trees had no foliage so I imagine this would be 1000x more beautiful during other seasons. There was plenty of people around but nothing like the crowds I have seen for other times of the year. * We managed to get the iconic Sannenzaka photo with the pagaoda at night with no one in frame. It was so peaceful walking through here with the glow of the lanterns. * **Dinner:** Negibouzu - family run okonomiyaki restaurant 8/10 - quite low in flavour, definitely needed lots of the sauce. Not as good as the place I tried in Osaka and Tokyo. But still enjoyed it. Sitting hot plate side at mum and pop restaurants was my favourite dining experience in Japan and I wish we did more of it. * Returning to our accommodation we noticed snow was starting to collect on the ground, cars and roofs. **Day 6:** Travel to Hakone * It was snowing a bit more heavily and there was a decent collection of snow on the ground * 10:30am Shinkansen from Kyoto station to Odawara station and then a bus to Hakone * **Breakfast:** realising this was my last opportunity to have it I hunted far and wide for 551 in the station but I couldn't figure out the location. Was super sad and settled for 7-eleven onigiri (not a bad consolation prize) * There was heavy snowfall somewhere along the route so the train had to travel at a slower speed. The scenery was stunning though! * We got off at the closest stop to our Ryokan but google maps had us walk up a really steep hillside that felt really off the beaten path so I panicked a bit. Also being unfit I struggled. * Checked into Suiun by 3:30pm. Was greeted with a tea and mochi. Room was beautiful and we had a private bath on the balcony. Free snacks and drinks available. Access to multiple other onsens on the property for private use. This is the reason we chose Suiun because we weren't confident using public onsen. * **Onsen:** very very hot! Took a while to mix the cold water through to make it comfortable. But oh so good for those achey feet. * **Kaiseki dinner:** I really wanted to experience this besides not being the most adventurous eater. I'd say I enjoyed half of the items and struggled with the rest. There was sashimi, fugu set in a clear jelly (tasteless), grilled fish (amazing), wagyu hot pot, shark fin in an eggy custard (so hard to stomach), tuna with a very overpowered sesame sauce, red bean drink and yuzu sorbet * There was so much food at dinner and I forced myself to eat the lot. Unfortunately that made my insides burn and I felt quite sick the rest of the night. Unfortunately I couldn't use the onsen that night. **Day 7:** Hakone loop --&gt; Travel to Tokyo * The public onsens were closed for cleaning unfortunately so I just used the onsen in our room in the morning. I was a bit disappointed that we spent all that money and I felt like I didn't take enough advantage of the luxury stay - because food hurt me :( * **Breakfast kaiseki:** I opted for the japanese breakfast while hubby wanted western after being too adventurous the night before. Grilled flattened fish was the star of the show! It's why I wanted to do a kaiseki so bad. If anyone knows how to get this outside of a ryokan please let me know! Onsen egg, rice, chicken salad, miso soup, root vegetables soaked in a really strongly flavoured liquid, really sour fruit in a red jelly, and a coffee jelly. Hubby got pasta, green beans, abalone and a minestrone soup. * Walked to Gora station and hopped on the cable car - very crammed * Owakudani 12pm * Clear skies so we got a lovely view of Mt Fuji * Black curry pan - 8/10 tasty, boys got black ice cream and loved it * Not too many people around, didn't have to line up for food or gondola * Gondola to Togendai 12:40pm * Another view of Mt Fuji * Strawberry ice cream at the station 10/10 tasted like real fruit * Missed the next boat ride - purchased first class tickets for the next one * Sat by the lake enjoying the serenity and beautiful weather * Boarded the boat at 2:15pm - first class got us seats at the front in a separate area. Really nice views including a sneaky peak of the top of Mt Fuji. * Due to timing we didn't get off at the first stop but continued on to Motohakone where we tried to find somewhere to eat 3:30pm * **Lunch:** A chinese restaurant for gyoza and fried rice 10/10 * Bus to Hakone-Yumoto 4:15pm and then train to Shinjuku 5:00pm"}
{"id": "0061", "text": "Japan trip november 2024 ( 3 weeks) Hi all! Just wanted to share my journey that me and my wife have had the past 3 weeks. I am on my phone, in the lobby of the last hotel waiting for my taxi to take me back to Haneda airport, and won't be able to edit this for some time. Sorry for All the mistakes and miss punctuation.. Before I start I have to tell you a bit about ourselves, we are a couple in our 30s, come from the Netherlands and both of us wanted to go to Japan since ever we were old enough to know what travel is haha. We are both anime and rpg game junkies, love food and could not be more happy then to be inside a 500 year old building. My wife grew up in a medium income household and I grew up in a pretty poor household. Due to a string of bad things happening and some lucky things happinging ( both my parents passed away last year and my wife's dad passed away a few years ago, but the housing market being the way it is and both our dad's owning small houses.. We suddenly have had a big increase in finances) So we really wanted to make this a once In a lifetime trip and the budget was about 10k in euro. This is life changing amount of money.. But it was worth every penny. Here we go! Travel. Friday 8 Nov - Day 0 KYOTO 9 Nov - Sat Day 1: landing in Tokyo at 1:45pm, used Yamato transport to send out luggage to the hotel and then travel to Kyoto, with the shinkansen. Hotel KABIN Kyoto: Amazing hotel! I highly recommend it! The room we had was fitted with a rain shower and the bed was big and clean. 10 Nov - Sun Day 2: , kiyomizu-dera temple eat in the streets of ninenzaka and sannenzaka yasaka shrine and next to it maruyama park explore gion district, ended the day with a visit to the Kyoto Pokemon Center ( a total let down to be honest and the worst pokecenter we went to) dinner was a high class unagi place that was super tasty! 11 Nov - Mon Day 3: Daytrip to Nara.Visit the Great Buddha at Todai-ji Nigatsu-do and Sangatsu-do (February and March Hall) Nandaimon (Great South Gate) Stroll around Nara Deer Park, Kasuga Taisha Shrine on way back to station go to Naramachi (Nara town) and here is omogi mochi pounding at Nakatanidou! Thoughts on Nara : one of the highlights of our trip! Nara is great! The deer where sweet and loved the senbei, you do need to handle the deer with care.. We saw a lot of stupid people making huge mistakes and getting attacked, but this was 100 procent there own fault. If you have any basic animal handeling skills you will see that the Nara deer are the sweetest wild animals you wil ever get the pleasure to meet. The temples and shrines were amazing! There was a little bakery next to the station that sold me the best melon pan I had all holidays. The day ended with us going to a chicken place in Kyoto near our hotel that served some special kinda chicken.. It was amazing! Best chicken I ever had. Nov 12 - Tuesday day 4: early to Arashiyama Bamboo Forest then had an pleasent walk trough a movie stars garden, walking back we took a little boat trip on the river that took about 45 min. After we jumped In a taxi to kinkakuji temple (golden temple). After the temple we jumped into a taxi to nishiki Market.. And this was not that good.. Certainly not compared to the other markets we went to later in the trip! It's still fun! Just don't expect to much. That night we met up with a friend who was in Kyoto by pure luck! And had yakitori dinner In a super small local mom and pop shop. Nov 13 - Wed Day 5: Bit of an off day, my wife was overwhelmed and we had underestimated the amount of walking we were doing. So we took the morning off. Around noon we went to the big tori gate shrine at fushimi Inari, and that was a bigger hike than we thought! But it was beautiful! Everything we read about it was true, at the bottom a boatload of people! Going up 30 minutes and you get space. Get to the big lookout point and you are basically with 10 others. Getting back at the hotel and sending our luggage to Hiroshima trough an 7/11 close to our hotel. Had some sushi for dinner, that was at the time amazing.. But thinking back on it., actually pretty mid haha ( it would be world class in the Netherlands.. But it turns out we where not ready for the real deal a week later). Closing thought on Kyoto : Wow! Just wow! Kyoto is amazing, it's the old capital of Japan and littered with the most beautiful temples and shrines, the people we met where a bit more stiff/rude then the rest of the country. ( my wife was called names for being big a few times by people/teenage girls who thought we could not understand Japanese). Public transport was a bit confusing at first but Google maps will get you all the way where you need to go. Kyoto was the only city where we felt the need to take a taxi, because the stuff we wanted to see and do did not line up with public transport all that well. Taxi was not cheap, but compared to Dutch prices, very well worth it! Trip to Hiroshima / Osaka 14 Nov - Thu Day 6: Daytrip Osaka, Den Den Town shopping, Ghibli store, eating okonomiyaki in Dotonbori, and visit the monster hunter Cafe. sleep in osaka hotel Sosetsu Grand Fresa Namba. hotel was fine, a typical Asian hotel. Clean room and nice bed,but small bathroom ( for me not enough room to comfortably shower). Right next to the famous street and 5 mins walk form the big running man sing. Closing thoughts on Osaka: 40 min away and a completely different vibe from Kyoto! Kyoto was all culture, Osaka is where my gaming and Otaku heart started to bloom. 15Nov - Fri Day 7: Getting on a train from Osaka to Himeji Castle, and here is the first small letdown of the trip.. Don't get me wrong, the catzke looks amazing, I can totally see why people are proud of it. But.. There is littery nothing inside. I might be way to European for this.. But I would not go again. Then a shinkansen to Hiroshima, hotel Kuretakeso Hiroshima Otemachi. Dinner at an really nice tempura place. Hotel in Hiroshima was almost a carbon copy of the one from Osaka, although there where 2 major diffrances. 1: the people, I have never met such nice staff in my life,big shout out to the staff of this place! 2: here we booked breakfast, and there was a option for unagi breakfast! On my best Japanese ( which is to say almost none haha) i told the old lady I loved eel and thought his eel was also very good! She now knew I liked eel. And.. Kept bringing me extra pieces! ( there was a limit of 3 pieces per person) bless this old lady's heart! Hiroshima time: 16 Nov - Sat Day 8: breakfast at hotel, Hiroshima peace monument an museum. Friend we met in Kyoto was also in Hiroshima to visit her parents. Lucky us! Her parents took us out to an okonomiyaki place to proof Hiroshima okonomiyaki was better then the Osaka one. Wel I can say there right! The dinner was amazing! Back the hotel the misses was poofed and went to sleep early, I went out to get a drink and found this amazing bar! It was a great night and highly recommend anyone to venture out into Hiroshima and have sole fun with the locals! 17 Nov - Sun Day 9: breakfast at hotel, Hiroshima Day trip to Miyajima. Going to the island was breeze because the hotel staff booked a boat ride for us that started in the peace park ( 10 min walk from the hotel). This island is not to be missed! It has deer again! ( also friendly, although you can't feed them and I think these deer where a bit more used to being petted then the Nara deer). We had some really good cakes/cookies the island is known for. After that adventure we went out and got some dinner, sushi this time again and bam! When you don't expect it you run into the best places! Super cheap super fresh and delicious sushi! Closing thought on Hiroshima: Before the trip my wife was a bit low on this city, it was far and she did jot really know what to do except see the peace museum. Turns out it was one of the best things we did, the people where great, the food was somehow even better and the peace museum and park where made with such reverence and thought that it made me burst into tears. ( this is the only museum in the world where I have cried..) 18 Nov - Mon Day 10: breakfast at hotel, check out and from Hiroshima to Kanazawa by shinkansen to The Hotel Sanraku ( spoiler alert, best hotel of the trip!) Dinner at a local izakaya that was again, amazing ( it's a theme.. Japan has great food) Kanazawa 19 Nov - Tue Day 11: explore Kanazawa, Omochi market for breakfast, and this was by far the best market we have been to! 20 times better then those of Kyoto! kanazawa castle. And kenrokuen garden, the garden is absolutely stunning! Done some shopping and ended the day with an meat restaurant that was oke. For the price we expected a little bit more. Closing thoughts on Kanazawa: Kanazawa is a gem! I wish I could have spend more time here. It's everything you will ever want from an Japanese city, amazing market, castle, gardens, food. I could heva spend my whole 3 weeks here and be happy. Road trip to Tokyo 20 Nov - Wed Day 12: check out and Rent a car at kanazawa station (Toyota rent a car place behind the station) Kanazawa to Takayama. In Takayama we visit Mura Folk Village and Sanmachi and eat hida beef for lunch. Another hour's drive to sleep at hotel Kazeya in Kamikochi. Our first real ryokan! Ryokan was great! Huge room (could say appartement) and had the full kaizakie dinner and breakfast, it was a lot of high quality food. The onsen where amazing and we really took our time to soak5and bathe. 21 Nov - Thu Day 13: breakfast at hotel and check out at 10am, explore Kamikochi with Shinhotaka Ropeway and then off to Matsumoto castle! Matsumoto was in my humble opinion a way better experience then Himeji. This cake had all kinda of cool stuff inside! Guns and posters and information. Then a 45 min drive to eat in Yamanochi at hotel Aburaya Tosen! 2e and most beautiful ryokan of the trip! Again, ryokans are amazing! This one was the most expansive night of the whole trip but we had a private onsen on the balkony of our room. It was heaven! Food was good and we felt like royalty! 22 Nov - Fri Day 14: breakfast at hotel and check out drive to snow monkey parking lot and walk for half an hour to the monkeys that are there from about 10 to 11am, Small tip: buy the apple pie at the apple pie stand at the parking lot! Best Damm snack I had all holidays! Then to Nikko, Gableview Forest Inn Had dinner there at the hotel, and it was again.. Really good haha. The 2 people run if te hotel are total (chatty) sweethearts and the hotel also had a private onsen we did not know about! 23 Nov - Sat Day 15: exploring Nikko, eating at Nikko Guruman's Wagyu in the evening. If you ever have the change to go to this place I would highly recommend you to go! You need someone to call, and make the reservation ( the friendly people in the hotel did it for us!) but this was the second best steak I ever had in my life. 100 procent worth it! Closing thoughs on Nikko: Nikko is a dreamy mountain town that is the barrial place of the man who usherd in the edo period. The temples are grand and in the autumn foliage it was magical. Highly recommend going here for atkeast a day but maybe 2. Tokyo Dreams: 24 nov - Zo Day 16: driving to Tokyo . Gotokuji temple and Capybara caf Check in ar Shiba Park Hotel ( last hotel of the trip) and bringing the car back to the Toyota rental place (at Tokyo Station). Exploring Tokyo station ( pokemon centers and character street!) and eating some fine sushi. Closing thoughs on road trip and renting a car: This turned out to be the best dicission we made. Getting a car and driving into the country really took this trip to the next level. I would highly recommend renting a car in Japan. It's easy, it's not that expansive compared to Europe and you relaly get to see other stuff! 25 nov - Ma Day 17: started our day by going to Petit Mura catcaf, this place is AMAZING! The best cat Cafe I ever had the pleasure of walking into.at 13:30 we needed to assemble at the station Kichijoji to go to the Ghibli museum via Willer tour, and this was totally worth it! The museum was awesome, small and certainly not build for the amount of people who want to go.. This is why tickets are so hard to get! But going with this tour was worth every yen! Thinking my day could not get any better.. I was not ready for dinner at Corn Valley. This was one of the best dining experiences I ever had. The food was ok.. Nothing that stood out. But the whole restaurant was in ghibli style! And we reserved a secret room and had no idea what it was. We'll it's a room you acces by going trough a secret passage and it's full with ghibly stuff! The waiter was amazing! She really loved ghibli like we sis and let us pick the music weiked and even got us out fav Characters as giant plushies and put them on the chairs next to us! (shout out to catbus/nekobusu) 26 nov - Di Day 18: at 11.30 brunch bat Zelkova in Shibuya, special eevee brunch! This was fantastic and we where totally under dressed. A lot of people where in full eevee cosplay, or brought there fav eeveelution plushies with them to the brunch hahaha. I wish I brought my flarion plushie! After this to Meiji shrine en Yoyogi park, and did some shopping at Shibuya/Harajuku Dinner at 27 nov - Wo Day 19: , azabudai hills was close to our hotel, did teamlab borderless there and saw the gallery with Pokemon art. 28 nov - Do Dag 20: Disney Sea: Could write up a whole trip report on just Disney sea. We are big theme park fans, and Disney sea was wonderful! If you like theme parks this one is really high on the list of best theme parks in te world. 29 nov - Vr Day 21: Akihabara shopping and arcade games! We spend so much money on the UFO cathers.. We had to buy an extra suitcase to bring all the winnings back home Hahah. 30 nov - Za Day 22: again to akihabara! So much fun! Now with a big extra suitcase back at the hotel.. We bought a lot of extra stuff to take back home. At night we went to Shibuya to go to Lost bar, it's a bar made by one of our favorite YouTuber and it was really nice up there! 1 dec - Zo Day 23.. End of trip.. Going home. Took a taxi to the airport and that was the best disission of that day. I could not fathom going up and down all the stairs with 4 suitcases. Closing thoughts on Tokyo: Tokyo is seriously amazing, I think that if you stayed for 3 months you would still see and do things you never did before. Although I loved Tokyo I would strongly recommend anyone who wants to make the trip to see more then just Tokyo. Don't get me wrong, Tokyo has everything! But.. If you like tempels you really should see Kyoto, Nikko or Nara. If you are really into anime or pop culture stuff you really should see Osaka. Tokyo is the place that has everything, but if you want to dive deeper there is so much stuff around that will kock your socks off! Eddit : finances! So I am now waiting on my luggage to drop off.. So I am making a small very not detailed financial report! Flights : 2 people from Amsterdam to Tokyo 2490 euro ( we went premium economy) Accomodations ; 2730 euro with the ryokans being most expansive ( one night was almost 500 euro for the 2 of us with the private onsen and the keizeki dinner +breakfast) All else 6000 euro. We only took green car shinkansen Haha Total :11.720 euro This is a VERY rough estimate I am doing on my phone at the moment. We did spend over 400 euro on crane games alone.. And spend more then 300 euro on Don quote snacks and stuff to bring back with us.. We bought a complete extra suitcase there and filled it up with 22 kilos of stuff.."}
{"id": "0062", "text": "Caveat that this is a long post but I hope its useful for folks! My partner and I like to travel with very packed itineraries and Im very type A so I plan most things down to the hour. It was his first time but Id been to Japan before, so I have experience in navigation etc. It also helps that Im Chinese so I can read kanji which helps a ton with menus and signs etc. Also were from New York City so were used to public transportation and walking everywhere - that being said, my feet were still sore after the first two days. We spent 6 full days in Tokyo, Lake Kawaguchiko &amp; Kyoto. Note that all prices below are for the two of us! Day 1/Arrival: Arrived HND at 5:25 and took public transportation to my friends apartment - arrived ~7:30. Took a quick shower and nap, and left around 9:30 to explore the area. Quick coffee stop and walked around the Waseda area. Headed to an omakase tempura lunch (shunkeian arakaki, Michelin 1 star) in the Tsukiji area. Lunch was amazing and lasted ~2 hours, easily top 10 meals of my life ($305). Then did harajuku, Meiji shrine, and shibuya crossing. Went back to friends apartment and finished the day with an easy 7-11 dinner (plus was still waaay stuffed from lunch). * Steps: 22k * Spend: $21 transportation, $325 food Day 2: Headed to Tsukiji for brunch; it was super crowded and we were there for ~2 hours ($40). Wanted to go to the national museum but it was closed (bad planning on my part). Headed to Asakusa / Sensoji - walked around for ~1hr. Wanted to go to the imperial palace gardens but was also closed! Did the Korakuen instead ($4, which turned out great - they had a little stamp scavenger hunt in the park and you ended up with a beautiful postcard souvenir), then Akihabara, and then Tokyo City View ($22) in Roppongi. Went to Ginza for a little shopping appointment (we got his wedding band!) then finished off the day with a sukiyaki dinner at Kisoji ($87). * Steps: 27k * Spend: $17 transportation, $147 food, $26 sightseeing Day 3: quick taxi ride ($25) to Tokyo station before hopping on the bus ($30) to Lake Kawaguchiko. We took a taxi as I just had zero desire to navigate morning rush hour commute with two carry-on suitcases. Took the sightseeing red line bus directly from the train station to our hotel (Ubuya) and dropped our luggage off. Weather was awful with no Fuji in sight. Did the ropeway ($13, which was silly in hindsight because there was nothing to see), maple corridor, and oishi park. Wanted to go to the kubota itchiku museum but closed (again). Checked into the hotel around 15:00 and spent time in the hot springs / chilled in the hotel lounge for the rest of the afternoon. Dinner was served at 18:50 - it wasnt bad, but I was expecting slightly better food to be honest. The whole day was a slight bummer due to not being able to see Fuji, but the hot springs really cured my sore body/ feet. * Steps: 6k * Spend: $73 transportation, $18 food, $13 sightseeing, $452 hotel (1 night, inclusive of 2 meals for 2 people) Day 4: woke up at 6:00 and lo and behold, the mountain!! For those of you debating whether Ubuya is worth it or not, it IS. This view from our bedroom was just insane, I easily stared out the window for 30 minutes. Went for a quick morning hot spring dip, then breakfast. Again - wasnt bad, but expected slightly better. Checked out at 9:30 and the hotel shuttled us to the train station where we stored our suitcases ($6), then hopped on the train to shimoyoshida for arakurayama sengen park. Spent ~1.5 hours there, got amazing pics, then train-ed back to Kawaguchiko. Got on our bus ($30) to Mishima from there, then transferred to the Shinkansen at Mishima ($140). Everything was seamless and easy and before we knew it we were in Kyoto! Quick subway ride to our hotel (the new Four Points Flex - its clean and new but beware that its TINY! Staff were super nice though). Walked to a conveyer belt sushi place nearby ($27, food was nothing to write home about, but I love the concept), then a 20 min subway ride to Fushimi Inari Tasha. Its indeed way less crowded at night, but deeper into the temple it started to get a bit creepy. Subwayed home and PTFOd. * Steps: 16k * Spend: $186 transportation, $39 food, $6 luggage storage, $215 hotel (2 nights, no meals) Day 5: late start today! We left the hotel around 9:30 and took a taxi ($13) to kiyomizu-dera. It was super crowded with a bunch of students on field trips. Spent ~1hr there, then walked around in the small streets of Gion. Waited ~20 min in line for Gyukatsu Katsugyu ($33, good and honestly well priced!), then took a long bus ride to Kinkaku-ji. Again, sooo many people but this temple was beautiful! Totally worth it. Spent ~1hr there ($6), then took a bus to the manga museum. Slightly overpriced tickets ($15) but was pretty cool - we missed out on slots for a manga-style portrait though (sad). 10 min walk back to hotel, then rested for a bit before heading to Nishiki Market and Pontocho. Had dinner at a great little izakaya in the alleys (kokodonemo, $44), then walked back to our hotel. * Steps: 20k * Spend: $18 transportation, $85 food, $21 sightseeing Day 6: checked out of our hotel and left our luggage there, then took a train to arashiyama for the bamboo forest and tenryu-ji. Didnt end up going into the temple but spent ~1hr in the bamboo forest / surrounding area. Quick stop at the rilakkuma cafe and the miffy cafe (obsessed with both, honestly), and enjoyed a fish cake snack by the river. Took a bus to Nijo Castle ($17) which was super cool to see for those of us who enjoyed watching Shogun on Hulu. Walked 20 min back to our hotel with a family mart fried chicken pit stop on the way. Scored two pairs of adidas sneakers for $50 total on a Black Friday sale, then collected our luggage and made our way back to Kyoto station. Shinkansen-ed to Tokyo ($186), got back to the apartment, and went for a quick dinner at a popular student spot nearby. Re-packed and got ready to depart the next day. * Steps: 19k * Spend: $199 transportation, $50 food, $17 sightseeing Day 7/Departure: thats all folks! If youve made it this far, thanks for reading public transport back to HND for our morning flight out! * Steps: 3k * Spend: $9 transportation Spending summary * Actual shopping (ie things I needed and were cheaper in Japan than in the US): $2165 (95% of this was wedding band which is irrelevant to the trip) * Food: $664 * Accommodation: $640 (3 nights) * Distance transportation: $386 * Meals I invited my friend to to thank her for hosting us: $196 * Local transportation: $137 * Sightseeing: $77 * Misc: $26 (e-sim, luggage storage, etc) * Gifts for family &amp; friends: $28 * Random shopping (ie things I didnt need): $24 * Not including flight prices here as our tickets included onward flights to china Overall it was a great trip and Im super grateful to have had a friend who we could stay with in Tokyo and leave our larger suitcase with. Suica made transportation super easy and 8G of data on Airalo across the two of us was perfectly sufficient for 6 full days of traveling. And the favorable exchange rates definitely helped a ton!"}
{"id": "0063", "text": "First Time - Country # 83 Flew from NYC to Eastern Europe for a few days to adjust timezone, then flew to Taiwan, then Korea for a week to further adjust to timezone. Then flew from Korea to Fukuoka. Flew Business/First to help with Timezone Adjustment. Below are each city and my favorite things within. **Fukuoka** \\- Landed in the evening, took the Airport Bus to Hakata Station, stayed at a 4 star hotel walking distance to the station. Purchased JR Northern Kyushu Pass. Had great Hakata Ramen at then walked the rivers up to DonQ and Taxi back to Hotel. \\- Within the city explored Ohori Park , Fukuoka Tower, The Beach , excellent Dotonburi at \\- Spent the day at Dazaifu , explored some of the temples and food around there, took the 6pm train back and explored at night around the city. **Nagasaki** \\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- **-** Activated JR Pass, took Kamome Bullet Train to Nagasaki , Took a day to get a feel for the city, the trams and buses etc ate more seafood :) \\- Did the Atomic Bomb Museum, One Legged tori , walked the river and adjacent temples ending at Suwa Shrine \\- Did sunset at the mountaintop observatory for an amazing view of the city, used the ropeway. \\- Roamed the city at night along the river and discovered an amazing local Sushi spot , chef even gave me free sea urchin \\- Explored Nagasaki then Fukuoka again. **Hiroshima/Miyajima** \\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ **-** Brief walk-around Hiroshima between trains to see Atomic Bomb Dome, then local train to the ferry terminal to Miyajima Island. \\- Booked a traditional home AirBnb for a few days Guest House Nara (https://maps.app.goo.gl/bkYsGyjFTMeSQvZr9) \\- Explored the Island , had great food at Okonomiyaki Kishibe , ate oysters , lots of little hikes and touristy stuff on the island. Used JR Pass so ferry was free. **Himeji Castle** \\-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- **-** Took the train to Himeji Castle, spent the day there, climbed to the top and did the gates. explored the city a bit, enjoyed the fall colors and numerous parks. **Osaka** \\--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- **-** Spent day 1-2 hanging around Amerikamura area, my favorite shop was B.B(American village freemarket B.B), great deals on watches, vintage gaming, and traditional souvenirs. \\- Explored the riverwalk Dotonbori and spent all night wandering :) \\- Spent a day around Tstenkaku , did the tower for sunset, lots of cool arcades, shopping food \\- Day trip to **Kyoto** to see a friend using JR Pass express train, loved the piano and train museum in the station, HATED the volume of tourists at the forest and temple, got a few nice shots and explored the quieter streets, then opted to go back early and hang with my friend who took me food hopping, to tokyo hands for shopping (and got me engraved chopsticks) , and to a few music stores and bars. \\- in Osaka again, did Umeda Sky , used the bus since i was coming from Shin Osaka area. Found the bus to be enjoyable crossing the river. \\- Ate and Explored in Kita, really enjoyed the Municipal Housing Museum \\- Spend the next day exploring Osaka Castle and taking in the peak fall colors, really enjoyed this area. There was a fair as well in the park. \\- Explored around the area and tried to use JR lines to maximize the pass value. **Tokyo** \\--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- \\- Did the bullet train to Tokyo sat on the left and got a great view of Fuji around 10am, crystal clear \\- Did the top of the Gov building no 1 for the free observatory, only one was open \\- Learned Shinjuki station, explored west and east of it , did shibuya crossing at night and wandered east around the station and walked back to airBNB in Okubo \\- Did night batting at an outdoor baseball net at Shinjuku Batting Center \\- Spent a shopping and eating day in Harijuku , found a really cool seiko exhibit in the mall \\- Got great free views of Shibuya from d47 museum and galleries \\- Visited Hie Shrine which was impressive a because its right in the middle of an area that reminded me of Manhattan \\- Did Tokyo Tower, opted for the deluxe pass, worth it for the higher view and less crowds \\- Went to Sky Cafe in Azubudai area after for great nigh views of the tower \\- Explored and shopped in Ginza at night \\- Spent the day hunting vintage electronics in Akihabara Radio Kaikan , i would come back here many times over the next 5 days buying more haha , loved Hard-Off and ended up visiting about 6 of them around Tokyo, got AMAZING deals in their Junk floors \\- Did Tokyo Skytree, in hindsight i should have bought a ticket earlier as i came for sunset but by the time i got up it was night, insanely crowded, good views , good sushi nearby \\- Spent the night wandering around different old school game arcades in Nishi , my fav was Mikado Game Center \\- Visited Min-on Music Center, completely free music museum, great place if you are a musician \\- Walked to the Yasukuni-jinja shrine explored around the area, war museum was closed \\- Took a random train to Koenji , explored around there and Nakano for more vintage hunting and eating in local places \\- Went to Sunshine City for the mall and roof top , lots of bargain shopping on the second floor in the connected building \\- Visited and played the Ryoguku Station Piano (a must if your a pianist) actually found many street pianos in japan , this was lots of fun and great way to zone out and meet locals \\-Went back. to ginza to visit some of my fav brands, enjoyed Yamaha ginza , the iridori piano and music cafe , also went to seiko museum, nissan and more \\- did the art aquarium , which was trippy and cool , good for a rainy day \\- visited asakusa, full of tourists but managed to get some nice photos \\- spent more days back around Akihabara , Shibuya, and around Okubo \\- Spent my final day at Toyosu Manyo Club 9 floor Onsen resort \\- Final Taxi to Haneda then back to EWR **Overall Positives :** \\- it was way cheaper than i thought, maybe shoulder season or low yen? \\- perfect fall weather, everyone warned me about the summer heat \\- clean , timely and comfortable transit , sometimes a little confusing but im used to public transit living in nyc so i figured it out \\- JR Northern Kyushu pass saved me nearly 15k Yen, worth it for this route \\- carrying a smaller bag with passport, change, jacket was the best idea, saw many people lugging around suitcases, coin lockers are great for this \\- food was amazing, didnt have a bad meal maybe one or two bad station meals or fast food **Overall Negatives :** \\- carry a bag to dump your trash, i bought stuff from lawsons or 7/11s to dump trash \\- things close on the dot, i was about to buy a camera for $200 and it was 7:59 , in middle of transaction the guy said were closed now come back tomorrow.. \\- at 1am with no cars coming, people still wait to cross the street, im from nyc and found this strange. \\- had many delays in tokyo due to 'personal injury' on the tracks , but found alternative routes \\- prices are higher in DonQ , actually found candy for less in more local areas, drugstores etc \\- not very customizable, if a meal comes with something it can be difficult to substitute it or make modifications at some places, for people with allergies this may be an issue Overall was a great trip, one of the most unique countries ive visited, very glad i went the route i did because i enjoyed the smaller more peaceful cities in the south. Did tons of walking so im glad i brought a good pair of shoes and dressed in layers, learning google maps was essential, i didnt learn much of the language and got around fine, only paid cash a few times, only got lost a few times (osaka shin, and shinjuku station), people were friendly but not as social unless it was at a bar or sushi joint, public employees were very helpful, met alot of foreigners as i got closer to osaka , but hardly any down south, the bikes that ride on the street can come close, esp if you dont hear them. the prices were good because of the yen and no tax, if you plan to repack alot of stuff and its cheap (barely above 5500 yen) pay the tax otherwise they will pack everything into a duty free bag you cant open , for example candy i bought and put into empty water bottles to save space, couldnt have repacked them if they were in a sealed bag. Imgur Album : https://imgur.com/a/xm4oXho"}
{"id": "0064", "text": "Hello everyone! I returned from my trip to Japan back in September, and since I used this community as a resource for planning, I figured it was time to contribute my experience back to the community. I meant to post this weeks ago, but chrome decided to delete almost 40K characters of writing, so I had to remake this entire first post from scratch. Everything here is based on the travel log I kept during my trip that totals to just under 35K words. For context: ~~28~~ 29 YOM traveling solo. *Technically* fourth time in Japan, but the first stay longer than 20 hours. Previous experience living and traveling in South Korea and Europe. All flights/hotels were booked through Amex travel. Hotels were selected based a combination of centralized location relative to Points of Interest (POIs), proximity to public transit, English speaking staff, and included laundry rooms. While I did make reservations for several locations that required it and one restaurant, most places I visited I just purchased a ticket day-of. I brought three pieces of luggage with me: a soft-sided top-opening suitcase, a backpack, and a gym bag. The suitcase was primarily shipped between hotels with the exception of the Tokyo-Yokohama leg. The gym bag was used to transport clothes and other items when the suitcase was in transit and to handle overflow when the suitcase was filled with souvenirs. The backpack served as my day bag. SIM card was pre-purchased from Japan Experience prior to departure. I did not change any cash prior to or after arrival. I generally used my two credit cards at places that accepted them. For cash, I generally withdrew from ATMs in 10K yen increments as needed and never walked around with more than 15K at one time. While I downloaded several apps prior to arriving in Japan, only ones I found myself using regularly were Google Translate, Navermap, and ChatGPT. I did study some basic Japanese and etiquette before departing, but I found most of the service workers I interacted with spoke at least some English and Google Translate was able to fill in the gaps. I actually forgot to load my itinerary onto either of the devices I brought with me and didnt realize until my first full day in Tokyo. Thankfully I had gone over it enough times I effectively had it memorized, and for everything else, there were automatic reservation reminders. I assigned a few locations I wanted to visit per day, based around reservations and geographic proximity, but left a few days more unstructured for travel and rest. The entire Yokohama leg was almost completely unstructured and organized by the friends I stayed with. Other locations visited came from friends, coworkers, The Lonely Planet guide, and of course, here. **Day 1: Haneda Arrival &amp; Early Expeditions** I flew into Haneda around 2:00 local time. I had pre-completed the arrival form and screenshotted it on my phone. Immigration and Customs went smoothly. They have a lot of staff, English signs, and regular PA announcements to deal with all the sleep deprived foreigners. Everything, including getting my luggage took about an hour. Once I got out onto the concourse, I pulled 10K yen from an ATM and headed over to the travel counters and exit. I got my SIM card switched out and activated and attempted to load the Welcome Suica I had ordered online, but I could not get it to work and ended up just getting a new card. Took the train and got a little lost trying to find my way through Shinjuku Station, but after a few wrong turns I was able to find the exit before passing out from heat exhaustion. I headed straight to my hotel the **WPU Shinjuku**. The room was small, but it was well put together. I got myself checked in and took an hour to cool off and rehydrate before heading out again. I took the train down to Shibuya and saw the Hachiko statue, walked through the Scramble and wandered through the Shibuya streets, eventually making my way up to Harajuku. However, by the time I got there, most of the businesses had shut down. Took the train back to Shinjuku and hit up the Family Mart for dinner before turning in. **Notes:** The climate hits you as soon as you step out of the terminal. Walking around Shinjuku station was suffocatingly hot and humid. Walking around Shinjuku felt like I was in a virtual reality simulation, something like Ready Player One. **Day 2: Tokyo I** Grabbed some croissants and orange juice for breakfast at the hotel before catching a train to the **Shinjuku Gyoen**. Arrived a little before opening and chatted with some other travelers before heading inside. My first stop was the traditional Japanese garden, where I quickly found the Taiwanese pavilion and across from it, the first stop of my anime pilgrimage, the gazebo featured in the film *The Garden of Words*. From there I made my way to the European style gardens and the small history center about the park. I then walked through the greenhouse before concluding my tour with the mother and child garden. The park was quite nice. At some points it was easy to forget that you are in the middle of a city, and it felt cooler than other parts of Tokyo as long as you werent in direct sunlight. It costs 500 yen to get in, but the park is very well maintained and there isnt a sticker or graffiti tag in sight. There were also plenty of water fountains. Next I walked **Suga Shrine**. The shrine counter was closed when I got there, but I was able to grab a few pictures of the famous stairs featured in *Your Name*. For lunch I stopped at a small restaurant called **Island Burger** that I spotted on my way to the shrine, and then made my way to the **Metropolitan Government Building**. I took the chance to rest a bit and browse the gift shop while admiring the view. After getting back to ground level I made my way back to Harajuku and browsed through some of the shops and checked out a small shrine off of **Takeshita Street**. The place was a zoo and smelled like sewage in a few spots. The speakers were playing *Fatal* by Gemn and *Undead* by Yoasobi on a loop. Headed back to the hotel and took a break to rest and rehydrate. I grabbed dinner at the hotel caf and used the free beer ticket that came with the reservation. **Kabuchiko** was next, and was just as sketchy as I had heard. I tracked down the McDonalds seen in *Weathering With You* and ended up tailing a tour group to keep the touts all over the place from harassing me. Stopped by Burger King for snack. From there I walked over to **Golden Gai** and after some searching I found a bar called **?** and spent the rest of the evening drinking with a pair of Finns and an Australian couple on their honeymoon. **Notes:** Part of the reason you cant hear the city in Shinjuku Gyoen is because the cicadas drown out everything else. It was also home to some murder hornets (which there were posted warnings about). The Shinjuku Gyoen gazebo is smaller than it appears in the film, and the red railings of the Suga Shrine stairs appear more orangish to the naked eye. Do not attempt to keep up with an Australian couple on their honeymoon. You will lose. **Day 3: Tokyo II** Barely slept and woke up severely hungover. Somehow managed to grab breakfast and get to Odaiba right on time for my **TeamLabs Planets** reservation. I recommend walking through twice. It gives you a chance to hit things you might have missed the first walk through, and some of the exhibits felt different with more people. I thought it was well worth the price. For lunch I got the vegan uzu ramen at the caf across from the exhibition entrance. Paid a little extra to sit in the nice, air-conditioned meditation room. My next destination was the **Divercity Mall**. I saw the **Gundam Statue**, walked around the mall for a while and visited the **Gundam Base**. Decided not to buy any larger souvenirs, but did grab a Gundam bust from one of the capsule machines in the Gundam Base Annex. After finishing up at the mall I continued my anime pilgrimage. First going to the **Tokyo Teleport Station** and then over to a walking trail near Akihabara seen in the last scene of *Weathering With You*. Lastly, I went over to the **Hijiri-Bashi Bridge** seen in *Suzume*. My last POI for the day was **Tokyo Skytee** where I had an evening reservation. I went straight to the Temba deck to try and catch the sunset, but the cloud cover caused by the typhoon obscured most of the view. So instead, I checked out the Pokemon collab they had going on at the time. My dinner was a cup of fried chicken from one of the cafes. I also stopped at the Pokemon caf for a cupcake and enjoyed the view. Ended up walking the last quarter mile to the hotel in the pouring rain since the typhoon reached the hotel before I could. Did some laundry and packed up. **Notes:** Shinjuku station is markedly more difficult to navigate than the other stations in Tokyo and Japan in general. Do not attempt to navigate Shinjuku Station during rush hour while severely hungover. **Day 4: Yokohama I** Got breakfast at the hotel again and ran over to Family Mart for an umbrella. After checking out, I hopped onto the train to Yokohama with my suitcase. I met up with the family friends I would be staying with. After dropping my luggage off we went to Chinatown for lunch where I tried out Sanma-men. We walked around Chinatown a bit more before they took me to the waterfront. We toured the **Hikawa Maru**, a steamer that was repurposed to serve as a hospital ship during WWII. It was well maintained and well worth the tour. We also stopped by a free observation deck located in a nearby hotel that gave good views of the port. After taking a break for drinks we headed over the **Red Brick Warehouse** and walked by **Cosmo World Amusement Park**. On our way to dinner, we passed by the old Yokohama Customs Building and the Kanagawa Prefectural Office. We met with two other family members at a Korean BBQ restaurant for dinner. Tried out both beef stomach and grilled mochi. **Day 5: ~~Chiba~~ Tokyo III** While the plan was to visit Chiba, due to the typhoon still being in the area they did not want to risk getting stuck on the wrong side of Tokyo Bay. Instead, we headed to Asakusa, starting with **Kamimorimon Shrine**. Next, they took me to an underground shopping area as well as **Ameyayokocho**. We also stopped by a small historical exhibit. Lunch was at a **Saizeriya** restaurant. Our next stop was Yasukuni Shrine. Aside from having the biggest Torii gate I saw in Japan, the museum featured one of the few surviving Zero fighters as well as two artillery pieces used during the battle of Okinawa. We were joined by another member of our party here and took a break at the caf to have some drinks. From there we headed back to Shibuya. While waiting for seats at a sushi restaurant we stopped by a large candy store and visited the **Don Quijote**. We were joined by the final member of our party shortly before we sat down for dinner. I am not a huge sushi eater, but I did try out a few new types, to include octopus, vinegar mackerel, and the standout, urchin. After parting with everyone but my hosts, we headed back to Yokohama. There was some discussion of visiting the local onsen, but we got back too late and were too tired. **Day 6: ~~Fujinomiya Transit~~ Yokohama II** While I intended to travel to Fujinomiya this day, the typhoon caused the closure of all the train lines. This left me with either a multi-hour bus ride or an extortionate cab as my only transport. My hosts asked me to stay another day, which I accepted. Much of the morning involved wrangling with my hotel and letting them know I would not be arriving that day and me working with Amex support to keep them up to speed with the situation. For the day we set back out for Minato Mirari. Our first stop was at the **Nissan Global Headquarters** where they were doing their annual 24 hour charity event for UNESCO. Got to check out some new cars they had on display and see idols perform. Lunch was a delicious pork cutlet in a savory sauce. Later we checked out a large Yamaha instrument store and spent an hour or two relaxing in a caf . On the way back we got ramen for dinner and stopped at a bakery to get some breakfast items for the next day. **Notes:** Of all the days for this delay to occur this was quite possibly the best day of my entire trip for it to occur. My hosts assisted me by calling the hotel and explaining my situation to them while I was busy sorting out everything with Amex live chat. **Day 7: Fujinomiya Transit** I got packed up, and with the assistance of one of my hosts, soon found myself on the Shinkansen to Fujinomiya. I was projecting to arrive shortly before lunch, but due to a comical number of errors and misfortunes I didnt arrive until several hours later. They included: going to the wrong platform, a train going out of service, and two women blocking the door and accidentally preventing me from getting off at Fuji station. No problem. I thought. Ill just hop off at the next station and head right back. Narrator: He was wrong. I got stuck at Fujikawa station for an hour because of the typhoon causing continual delays on the line. Eventually I did get to Fujinomiya and dropped my bags off at the **Fujinomiya Green Hotel**. I then headed over to the nearby bus station to get tickets to the Mt. Fuji 5th station, only to find out that the route had been closed for the past three days and the clerk wasnt sure if they would be available for the next day. I took a few hours to rest at the hotel before heading over to the nearby 7-11 to stock up on provisions. After dropping them off in the room, I grabbed dinner at a nearby Izakaya. Tried the local specialty of fried soba noodles and some other items. After I paid, two staff members followed me out still speaking, and I was a little confused until I realized they were thanking me. Finished the day with prepping my backpack for the climb and registering my intent to climb on the website. **Notes:** Of all the hotels I stayed in, I liked the Fujinomiya Green Hotel the least. My room was larger than the WPU, but it definitely did not smell like the non-smoking room I paid for. **Day 8: Climbing Mt. ~~Fuji~~ Hoei** Got up early and had a donut for breakfast. Headed down to the bus counter and got a two-way ticket for the first bus at 8:15. The trip up was not the 40 minutes I had seen it described online and was closer to 80. Got checked in, gave my donation and started making my way up the mountain. After getting to the 5th Station, I checked the bus schedule, only to realize that there are only two Fujinomiya busses each day, the one I rode up on, and another at 3PM. This combined with the deteriorating weather on the summit and a few other factors led me to abort my summiting attempt at the last minute. Instead, I diverted to climb Mt. Hoei. After making it up to the 6th station and grabbing a mini-Fuji stick, I set off on the Hoei loop. Being a less popular destination, the trail was not as well maintained. A bit of goat path at times. The trails on the peak itself were a fairly constant 35-40 degree grade and made of ankle deep loose gravel. It felt like every step I took forward; I would slide half a step back. It took longer than expected, but I reached the summit and took a break to eat a snack and rehydrate. On the way back I accidentally wandered a short distance off the trail and had to scramble back up. Climbing the mountain was eerie. It rained on and off the whole climb and with the cloud cover you could barely see 20 feet in front of you. The combination of that and the volcanic rock made it very quiet. All I could hear was the sound of footsteps and my own breathing. I made it back to the 6th station and contemplated going up to the 7th, but decided I didnt have enough time and took a break before heading back down to the 5th station to catch the bus. After getting back to the hotel, I was exhausted but decided to make use of the remaining daylight and wandered around for a bit. For dinner, I grabbed a piece of fried chicken and some strong zero to enjoy with my leftover trail snacks. **Notes:** While I did structure my trip around a Fuji climbing attempt, I wasnt overly upset since I knew this was a possibility. What I did find frustrating is that the official Fuji climbing website had misleading information regarding the bus schedule. There is an hourly bus to the 5th station that takes 40 minutes, but it only runs from the Mizugatsuka parking lot. I could have taken that bus, but it would have put me 3 hours away from my hotel juggling multiple forms of transit. This, combined with the typhoon still in the area also contributed to my decision. Make sure you bring plenty of cash and coins to the mountain. There was a pair of American guys I saw who only got a one-way bus ticket and didnt have enough cash to pay for the ticket back down. This left them with a very expensive cab ride as the only option. I am 95% sure Pewdiepie was on the bus heading up the mountain. I swear this is true. **Day 9: Kyoto Transit** Started my morning by getting packed up and making a quick trip back to the shrine to pick up a Goshuincho (the counter had closed when I visited the day prior). After that, it was back to the hotel to check out and ship my suitcase. The last thing to do in Fujinomiya was visit the **Mt. Fuji Heritage Center**. The building has a very unique design, helpful staff, and a lot of interesting information on the history and culture surrounding the mountain. I picked my duffel bag before leaving on my train to Shizuoka. Got a snack and grabbed a beef yakisoba ekiben just before hopping on the Shinkansen to Kyoto. While the ekiben was good, it was not the end all, be all lunch I had in Japan. Upon arrival in Kyoto, I checked into the **Royal Park Kyoto Sanjo**, which was my favorite hotel that I stayed in during my trip. Dinner was curry at **Coco Ichiban**. I spent the rest of the evening going up and down the river walk. **Notes:** I accidentally hopped on a Limited Express train while transiting between Fujinomiya and Shizuoka. You can pay for the ticket directly to the inspector, just make sure to have the cash for it. My hotel had hand soap that smelled *exactly* like Sprite. **Day 10: Kyoto I** Got up early and went straight to the **Arashiyama Bamboo Grove**. It is a cool spot, but as other people have mentioned, small. It does act as a good springboard however, to the other trails in the area. I ended up hiking up to the Mt. Goruma observation deck. By the time I came back down, the grove was much more crowded and frequently blocked by tourists trying to take group photos or set up tripods. If you go, I would not recommend arriving after 9-10 AM. I stopped by Minami shrine to get a Goshuin and got breakfast from a little stand called (according to the business card I was given) **Japanese Music Onigiri**. My next POI for the day was the **Toei Kyoto Studio Park**. It was not something that I had included on my itinerary, but after seeing the giant Evangelion Unit 01 bust as the train went by, I decided I had to check it out. It was an interesting place to visit. An old film set for period pieces and even an episode of Super Sentai. The old period sets had a few actors walking around in traditional dress, and there was even an animatronic dinosaur head that popped out of a pond with sound effects in one part. There were a few experiences that cost extra, but I decided to just head for the Evangelion section. They take a few pictures of you with the statue (one of which they print off for free) and you can go up, sit in the entry plug, and do a little quiz that matches your psych profile to one of the pilots (I got Mari, interestingly enough). After, I went to the cafe for a drink and browsed the Eva shop. Ended up leaving with a capsule from one of the machines and a NERV guest pass card holder that I used to keep my Suica card attached to my backpack for the rest of the trip. My next stop was the **Golden Pavilion**.. The pavilion itself was very cool to see. I got the Goshuin stamp and took a break to get some ice cream. From here it was on to my two final POIs of the day. First, I visited the **Silver Pavilion** which was both cooler and slightly less crowded than the previous stop. Here you can drop off your book for the Goshuin near the entrance and pick it up by the time you finish walking through. After leaving I briefly stopped to get a drink from a vending machine since I had burned through all the water I carried with me and set off down the **Philosophers Path**. It was a very pleasant evening stroll. Even without the cherry blossoms, the canal is very pretty to look at. I even saw an eel! Getting to the end of the path, I hooked back to the West and walked back to my hotel. Took an hour to rest before heading out for dinner. Dinner was at a tofu place right around the corner from the hotel that reception recommended to me. It was decent. I liked the fried chicken and spicy cucumbers but thought the tofu dishes themselves left something to be desired. **Notes:** This was my single day record for number of steps the entire time I was in Japan. Coming in at just over 40K or just under 21 miles according to my watch. I was in a decent amount of pain when I got back to my room after the Philosophers Path and spent most of the hour I rested with my feet elevated. I forgot to grab my hat, so instead I used my umbrella to protect my head and upper body most of the day. This was one of the days that showed that public transit in Kyoto isnt as good as it is in the other major cities. Especially when you get out of the city center. It was filled with long, solitary jaunts through residential neighborhoods getting from a station or bus stop to where I wanted to go. And a few GPS hiccups caused me to walk even farther. **Day 11: Kyoto II** Got started with the **Kyoto Manga Museum**. After entering, I headed straight over to the portrait corner to set up with Kasumin-Sensei. I am very glad I went there first, because by the time she finished 40 minutes later, she was already booked out until 2:20PM. The museum is in an old school and isnt terribly large, but it was still full of interesting things, even if many of them are in Japanese. One of the standout bits was the *Dungeon Meshi* Exhibition they were doing at the time. For lunch I stopped at the Dungeon Meshi theme caf that was attached to the exhibition and got some tasty Roast Dragon and Stolen Bread. My next stop was **Nishiki Market** and it was packed. Did one long pass through the length of the market before doubling back through. Grabbed a few small snacks to sample as I walked. Stopped by **Aritsugu Knives** based on the recommendation of a family friend and ended up picking up a cheaper Santoku knife. From there it was on to the **Kyoto Hobby Center**. Which had a lot of interesting and unique items for sale. I made note of a yukata that caught my eye but decided to shop around a little more. The center is actually two adjacent buildings with each specializing in different goods. My next POI was **Kiyomizu-dera**. I was running a little behind schedule at this point and was concerned I would be turned away. But thankfully I was able to tour the temple and get the Goshuin stamp. I headed back to the hotel on foot by way of Gion, stopping to browse a kimono store and at a small temple for the Goshuin on my way. Took a brief restand got before getting dinner at a ramen place called **To the Moon and Back**. Kyoto style, chicken broth with pork. Bar hopped around Sanjo for a while, then got some snacks and breakfast for the next day from Family Mart heading back to the hotel. **Notes:** If you want to get a portrait done at the museum, the website lists the schedule of the artists and shows examples of their work. That was how I decided what day I wanted to visit. Gion was definitely tourist heavy, you also couldnt throw a stone without hitting a kimono rental place. **Day 12: Kyoto III** Got started heading over to **Fushimi Inari**. I hiked through the whole loop up to the summit but took a little longer to get there for me, because I accidentally took a wrong turn and ended up walking some distance down the Kyoto trail which connects to Fushimi Inari. I also did a loop back as I went down the mountain to hit all 4 of the Goshuin counters. While the shrine was very cool to see, similar to Arashiyama, if you go past a certain time, expect it to be crowded. Again, try to go early. This place had the *most* obnoxious tourists of my entire trip. In terms of loudness, blocking the already narrow trails, and generally behaving in a disrespectful manner for the location. Next was the **Gekkeikan Okura Sake Musueum**. Again, a small museum, but it was interesting to learn how long the company had been in business, how they had influenced sake drinking and culture in Japan, and even that they had opened a satellite brewery in California! And the best part, admission included a free sake cup and a couple of samples that included stuff not available in stores. I ended up leaving with a 300ml bottle. From there I went back to the hotel to drop off my purchase and then headed back to Nishiki Market for lunch. The place was somehow busier, but I was able to find a seat at a restaurant and got a beef tempura set. I browsed some of the stores checking prices on Yukatas but ended up heading back to the handicraft center to pick up the one I spotted the day before. I went to **Gion Corner** in the evening and ended up shelling out for a premium ticket for a show there (included a closer seat and translation tablet). The show itself was a bit of a mixed bag, the standout performance of course was a pair of Maiko performing a traditional song and dance about the Gion district. Things got interesting on the way out. As we were exiting, an older Polish woman wiped out on the stairs in front of me. Being an EMT, I decided to stick around and assist. Briefed the paramedics and gave my information and a statement to the police (to include a crude demonstration of how she fell). Once I was free to go, I headed back to the hotel. Since it was late at this point I ended up getting Family Mart for dinner **Notes:** While I saw police several times during this trip, this was the only time I had to show them my passport or otherwise had an interaction with them, which is part of why I mention the incident. **Day 13: Osaka Transit** Started the day doing laundry. Got everything packed and checked out of the hotel. My first stop was **Nijo Castle**. The grounds were neat to explore, but more than any other castle I visited I felt like this one tried to nickel and dime. Next was the **Kyoto National Museum**. While larger than the other museums I had visited so far, it felt like there were a proportionally low number of exhibits. It was still interesting however, with the standouts being the burial jars, some of the scrolls, and the artwork on display. For lunch I grabbed a bowl of cold soba noodles with tempura chicken near the hotel. Picked up my bags and got on the train to Osaka. It was a quick trip, dropped my bags off at the hotel **Sotetsu Grand Fresa Osaka Namba** and took a few minutes to cool off before heading out again. Next was walking around **Dotonbori**. Took a picture of the **Running Man Sign** like all the other tourists. I found **Kushikatsu Daruma** and decided to have that for dinner. After, I kept walking until a sudden rainstorm sent me scrambling for cover in one of the covered streets. Decided to sample some Takoyaki while I waited. Tasty, but be careful not to burn your tongue! After the rain cleared up, I explored a bit longer. And with my eyes still bigger than my stomach, I decided to sample another Osaka specialty, Okonomiyaki. Got one with pork, egg, and kimchi. **Notes:** Osaka is definitely grungier than the other cities I visited in Japan, but that made it feel a little more real to me. **Day 14: Himeji &amp; Kobe** Took a local train to Himeji but ended up getting delayed by an hour due to issues with the line. While I had missed the organized English language tour, after entering the castle complex, I encountered Noriko-san. A middle-aged Japanese woman who volunteers to give tours. So, despite missing the English tour advertised on the castle website, I managed to get an upgrade in the form of a personal tour! Of all castles in Japan that I visited this was definitely the most impressive, not just visually, but through the fact that so much of it is original. It also blows my mind that they completely disassembled and reassembled it as part of the refurbishment process. I would definitely recommend a day trip to see it. After finishing the tour, I stopped by a temple adjacent to the castle for the Goshuin and made my way back to the train station. After a long train ride, I arrived in Kobe and made my way to the **Hakatsuru Sake Brewery** about an hour before close. Again, a small museum, but they had a lot of original production equipment on display with mannequins. The sake they had available for tasting was on the drier side, but the Yuzu flavor sake they had was my favorite of the trip, and against my better judgement I decided to buy a bottle of it. I headed back to central Kobe for my dinner reservation but arrived very early. Killed time wandering around and talking to the owner of a Cuckoo Clock shop that caught my eye with the German text on its overhang. My birthday dinner was at **Sai Dining** and I picked it based on the recommendation of a family friend. It was a multi course meal that included an alcoholic beverage and a free birthday dessert. It was all good, the steak I had was perfectly cooked, and the service was *sublime*. But it was a tad too refined for my tastes. And considering how much I paid; I wish I hadnt felt hungry when I left. Getting back to Osaka was an adventure in and of itself. I accidentally got on the wrong line and after an hour I realized that I had no idea where I was. But I eventually found my way back to Dotonbori. Dropped my backpack off at the hotel and briefly stepped out again to hit a nearby pharmacy and Family Mart for a ton of snacks. **Day 15: Osaka** My first stop of the day was at the **Abeno Harukas** building. It was a clear day, so I got some good pictures and even better views of Osaka. My next stop was the **Nipponbashi DenDen Town**. Shortly after getting there, I remembered that I had my reservation for the **Asahi Museum** tour. I still had some time to kill, so I decided to check out a few shops first. I then proceeded to spend too much time looking at gunpla and used game stores and ended up needing to rush to the factory. I made it just in time for my tour. This was definitely one of the coolest things I saw in Japan. Since it is an active production line, it reminded me a lot of the Hershey factory. Apparently, they put out 6.1 million cans of beer a day there. It was also the most technologically sophisticated tour I would go on. VR headsets? A 4D experience? I havent really seen stuff like this outside of Disney. The tour also came with two free beers and a complimentary glass. You can even get the museum logo printed on the beer foam! After that, it was back on the train to check out **Amerikamura**. I wandered through, with one of the main stops I made being the **Big Step Mall**. It had a very cool pinball arcade with what felt like a hundred different machines and a store for Genshin Impact merch. I headed back to Dotonbori and got ramen for dinner at a place that claimed to be the originator of Osaka Tonkotsu Ramen. Whether that is true or not, I think it was the best bowl I had of my trip. I got the most popular item, spicy and with extra pork draped over the sides of the bowl. I emerged from the shop half an hour later to a torrential downpour, but thankfully I was in one of the covered streets. I decided to kill some time wandering around the nearby anime merch stores and arcades. After browsing for a bit, the rain had not slowed in the slightest and I was still a little hungry, so it was time for second dinner. I stopped at a place called **DearBros** that served omurice. I went with the wagyu beef teriyaki version. It was delicious, though I wish I had gotten the smaller portion. The rain finally tapered off some by the time I finished, so I departed the street through one of the larger arcades I had seen earlier and used the Namba walk to get to the **Kuromon Ichiban** market. However, by the time I got there most of the shops had already closed. So I made my way back to DenDen Town, looking specifically for the Animate. I also stopped through a dedicated mecha store and smaller figure store that had an impressive collection. Headed back to the hotel to drop off my bag before heading out barhop but ultimately decided to call it early. **Notes:** I saw my first pests of this trip while I was heading back to my hotel in the evening. A large rat in a gutter and a roach scuttering around. Also, a salaryman vomiting into a storm drain. The area South of Dotonbori gets a little sketchy at night. Not in an unsafe way, but I was solicited twice for massages. The North side of the river seems to feature more host clubs, while the South has more maid cafes. Nearly got run over at one point by someone on a bike who was more focused on their phone, and this would not be the last instance. At this point my Japanese pronunciation had gotten good enough (and presumably confident enough in speaking) that I was complimented on it. I noticed going forward that people started to assume I spoke more than I actually did. **Day 16: Nara** Caught an early train into **Nara** without any issues and stopped at Lawsons to get a donut for breakfast before heading into the park. As advertised, tons of deer and none of them even the slightest bit afraid of humans. If anything, it was usually the other way around. Every few minutes I would hear a woman shriek from getting surrounded by or nibbled on by hungry deer. Feeding them could lead to you being followed for quite a distance. The ones not clustered up near the cracker stands tended to be more polite and bow before begging for crackers, while the others would just swarm you once they realized you had food. They werent terribly picky either. They licked my backpack and shoulder, tired to eat my shirt, and two even tried to eat my hat. These deer would try to eat anything you put in front of them. I saw one start eating someones map! Despite the chaos near the entrances, most of the deer were fairly relaxed. It was a hot day and most of them were just trying to stay cool. I decided to skip the feeding at first and made my way straight over to **Todai-Ji**. Got the combo ticket which included access to the temple museum. It had some good exhibits on the history of the temple and even had two swords that are believed to have belonged to an emperor on display. After getting the Goshuin I headed back to the park to feed some deer. Grabbed a pack of crackers and fed a small group hanging out on a stream that included a male with trimmed antlers who started headbutting my leg while I was feeding his friends. I bought one more pack and fed a few solitary deer as I made my way back. Ended up with a total of three deer following me at one time. Lunch was at a Kamemachi restaurant that I had to wait some time for a seat at. While it was good, rice with chicken, some marinated vegetables, mushrooms, and fruits served with miso soup; I didnt feel that it justified the amount of time I spent in line. My final stop in Nara was the **Harushika Sake Brewery**. More of a tasting room than the other breweries, but I did think it had the best arrangement of sake to sample. The standout being the sparkling sake which was very easy to drink. It also included some snacks I had never tried before like dried cucumber, dried pumpkin, and smoked pumpkin. After that, I went back to Osaka. I took a short break at the hotel before heading back to the Kuromon Ichiban market. Ultimately, I found it a little disappointing. A smaller, if wider version of Nishiki Market. My main evening POI was **Umeda Sky**. The area definitely was more upscale than Dotonbori and the building itself is something for the architecture nerds to drool over. The top observation deck gave some jaw dropping views of nighttime Osaka and the interior had some cool exhibits about Sky Gardens past, present, and future. Next, I went to another location recommended in the guide, **Tenma Beer Belly**. I tried two of their seasonal beers, the Peach Weizen and Weizen Dunkel. Food wise, I had their tacos, which were good. I had hoped to do some laundry in the evening, but all the machines were full. So, instead I went to Family Mart to get some snacks and got drunk in my room instead. **Notes:** Watch your step your step when walking through Nara unless you want to be scraping deer crap off of your shoes. **Day 17: Tokyo Transit** Spent a good chunk of the morning washing my clothes prior to checking out of the hotel. Hauled my suitcase over to the Japan Post counter a block or so away to ship my luggage before hopping on a train to **Osaka Castle**. The grounds were quite expensive. So much so that they have an Erectric Car you can buy a ticket for to take you around (though you would think if it was really Erectirc they would have painted it blue). I had to wait 30 minutes in line for a ticket, so I would buy tickets in advance for this one if you are not arriving early. There were a large number of exhibits to meander through, but I ended up speeding through the back half since I was already late. After leaving I considered getting the Goshuin from the temple on the castle grounds, but it had a huge line, only one shrine maiden doing the stamping, and I had no desire to spend anymore time waiting in line out in the sun. Instead, I visited the **Namba Yasaka** shrine to ensure I left with one Goshuin from Osaka itself. Lunch was a plate of Soba noodles with pork and octopus. Before getting my bags from the hotel, I also decided to grab some chopsticks with holders from a souvenir shop. I made my way over to Shin-Osaka and booked a reserved ticket on the next Shinkansen to Tokyo Oh man, that leaves in 8 minutes. Rushed over to the platform and got to my seat just as the train started moving. The train reached Tokyo without incident or delay, and I was able to fight my way through the station to get to my final hotel, the **Shinagawa Prince**. I had a bit of confusion here, because the hotel technically has three buildings, and my reservation sheet didnt indicate which one. So, unsurprisingly I went to the wrong one first. Turns out I was staying in the Annex building. After getting checked in and taking a break to unpack, I set out for dinner. I decided to go back through Shinagawa station to hit a Korean restaurant that had good reviews. Tried out their Tteok Bokki, Yangnyeom chicken, and a green onion pancake topped with cheese. Made my now routine trip to Family Mart on the way back to the hotel. **Notes:** Osaka castle has a discount on admission if you show you have a Osaka rail pass of some sort. If you get spicy chili chips at Family Mart, know they are literally just barbeque flavor. Since I am running out of characters and this is a good break point, I will pause my report here. Part 2 will include my hectic final days in Tokyo as well as my final impressions and recommendations. I expect to post it tomorrow, and the link will be updated in this post. Please feel free to comment or ask questions or comment on either."}
{"id": "0065", "text": "I just returned last week from a 10-days trip to Tohoku (with a splash of Tokyo for shopping). It was nothing short of amazing, and I would definitely return for a visit again in the near future. The landscapes were stunningly beautiful, and the slower pace of life and lack of crowds(!) provided a much different experience from touring the popular cities. If you like nature, rugged sea coasts, you have to see Tohoku. It's also great if you have travel companions (like my parents) who don't enjoy cities, noise, and crowds that much. Arrangements I made to factor in my elderly parents' (69 &amp; 71yo) creaky joints and average fitness: * **Hotels were all within walking distance (&lt;10mins) from major shinkansen stations** * **Aomori (3-nights): Hotel JAL City Aomori.** Daiwa Roynet might have been a better choice here, but the breakfast at JAL was amazing so it was worth it. I had lots of scallops and other seafood, so did my parents. * **Akita (1 night): ANA Crowne Plaza Akita.** This was supposed to be a buffer before our onsen stay. Very convenient with plenty of food options around the hotel. * **Nyuto Onsen (1 night): Taenoyu Ryokan.** Not very easy to get to, but there was minimal walking involved. Will provide a detailed write up below. * **Sendai (2-nights): Hotel Monterey Sendai.** Pretty near to Sendai station. There is an elevator on the overhead walkway next to Parco 2 which one can take. There is NO NEED to carry baggages down stairs. You can use their spa (onsen) for free! * **Asakusa (2-nights)**: **Asakusa Tobu Hotel** It's right beside Asakusa Station on the Ginza line. Very easy to get to if travelling on Shinkansen to Ueno. Elevators to street level are all accessible (ableit with some searching and keen eyes) * **Minimal luggage dragging** * **Booked transport to and from airports.** From Aomori, it was \\~6300yen and booked through KKday. A little pricey, but Aomori airport is in the middle of nowhere and we landed at 8pm. To Haneda, it was \\~9000yen, booked through Klook. Asakusa Tobu Hotel offers same day luggage delivery to airport. Might want to consider that if you are on a tighter budget. * **Used Kuro Neko Yamato delivery for baggage.** Sent ours at 2000yen per piece from Akita (through hotel) to Sendai so we could travel hands free to Nyuto Onsen. Best 6000 yen spent. Hotel staff filled up all details for us and we arrived at our Sendai hotel with luggage already sent to our rooms. * **All hotel booking had breakfast.** * Starting the day with full tummies ensures the elderly travel far. Trip Report * **Day 1 - Aomori** * **Flew SQ to Tokyo T3, then transferred to T1 for domestic flight (JAL) to Aomori** * Passed immigration, grabbed luggages and checked in again all at T3. Counters only opened at certain time for JAL/ANA, please check airport website. * Note that it's possible to pass through security check at T3 and shuttle buses to T1/T2 are available too. * Dinner was ramen at T1. Not great, but hey, not every meal has to be amazing. The main thing was keeping my parents sated and happy. * Checked in at about 9pm. Took a short walk to Lawson for some nice konbini fried chicken supper. * **Day 2 - Aomori** * **Morning:** Went to ASPAM, paid for 360deg observatory, had very(!) delicious apple pie, and bought plenty of apple pastries. * **Afternoon:** Checked out the station &amp; Lovina. Bought gigantic apples the size of small melons. They were delicious. Had late lunch at ootoya. (My parents don't take raw food so there was no nokkedon for them, and me &gt;.&lt;) We later went to Auga Fish market where most stores were closed because of Culture Day. Bought some dried scallops -- they are the secret ingredient to making eggs, soups and porridges so much better. Sweet and umami. The smaller they are, the sweeter! * **Evening:** Nothing, LOL. Shops closes very early. Bought snacks for supper at lawson. Turned in early. * **Day 3 - Aomori** * **Day trip to Oirase Gorge, Lake Towada and Hirosaki booked through KKday.** Tour was conducted in Chinese. * As there was a recent spike in temperatures, the autumn leaves stayed on and we got some really good views of the gorge. Totally worth the long drive. It was a pity though that we didn't have time for Hakkoda ropeway. Might consider that when I visit the region again. * Hirosaki is home to many many apple parks, and the castle grounds were beautiful. We got more apples (and jam!) from a nearby local store. They were very sweet and juicy. The peanut cookies sold there were also very good. Would recommend a stay in the city if time permits. * **Day 4 - Aomori -&gt; Akita** * **Took the Resort Shirakami to Akita.** * Beautiful views of northwestern coastlines. Consider reservations the day tickets come out, or better yet, the hour which they are released. I made mine the day after and many seats were gone, but it could have been a seasonal thing * **Afternoon/Evening:** Walked around the vicinity of Akita Station. Saw the nearby park a bit. Had udon for dinner. It was a chill evening. Chill is good for elderly. * **Day 5 - Akita -&gt; Tazawako -&gt; Nyuto Onsen** ***(Highlight!)*** * Arrived at Tazawako to fog in the mountains and light rain. Temperatures fell to \\~4c. Took the Tazawako loop bus to see the lake, which would have been prettier if the weather wasn't so dreary. But we had an amazing lunch near the station that was prepared by the sweetest lady so all was good. (Ekimae Shokudo) * Took the Nyuto line bus towards the onsen. FYI, the bus has space for luggage, but only big enough for maybe 3-4 standard sized baggages, and one has to lift them onto the storage area about 1m above floor. Several lockers are available near station (not just at the kiosks) if one wants to store baggages. The tourist center ONLY keeps your luggages until 4-5pm. * Had the great fortune of witnessing rain turning to snow(!!!!) while the bus slowly climbed its way up the mountains. By the time we reached **Tae no yu**, there was white everywhere. It was truly a sight to behold. Red autumn leaves covered in powdery snow. So, so beautiful T\\_T. The inn staff mentioned it was the first snow of the year, and it usually fell for an hour or so, but that day, it snowed till late in the evening. * The stay at the ryokan was really comfortable. Food was fresh (expect lots of mushrooms and vegetables), and there was an option for **Kiritanpo**, which was delicious! * The onsen facilities were clean with plenty of baths to choose from (Silver &amp; Gold). **The open mixed gender bath had a womens only hour from 5-6pm.** It had unobstructed view of the waterfall. Truly a treat. * **Day 5 - Nyuto Onsen -&gt; Tazawako -&gt; Sendai** * **Left Nyuto Onsen for Tazawako station and then Shinkansen to Sendai**. The weather had cleared by that morning, and we were treated to blue skies and the beautiful soft peaks of the surrounding mountains, some with snow still present. * Unfortunately, the shinkansen we were on was delayed (slightly more than hour). By the time we reached Sendai, it was late afternoon and the sun was setting. * We strolled around the station and checked out several nearby malls. Dinner was at saboten. My parents had a lot of fun grinding sesame seeds for the sauce. * **Day 6 - Sendai -&gt; Yamadera -&gt; Sendai** * **Climbed Yamadera (yes, climb)** * I asked my parents to choose between a leisurely day trip to matsushima for some beautiful islands or hike the 1000 steps(!!!) for amazing views. For some reason, they chose the latter. * We took the 8am train to beat the crowd (but i think the 7am one would have been better). The hike up was... challenging for my parents, but they made it to the top in the end. I suspect they were spurred on by the many elderly japanese that overtook them. * Views of the valley from Godaido hall were gorgeous. And my parents were really glad they pushed themselves. * **Afternoon/Evening:** We had a simple late lunch back in Sendai. The rest of the afternoon was spent resting, and we later enjoyed the complimentary spa baths (great after a hike). Skipped dinner. * **Day 7 - Sendai -&gt; Tokyo** * **Shikansen to Ueno, then a short subway ride to Asakusa** where I met up with a friend and her mum (61yo) * Asakusa Tobu Hotel is probably one of the best hotels to stay in the area. Proximity to everything made eating out and shopping a breeze. * **Afternoon/Evening:** We walked to skytree and got the full access ticket (booked earlier through klook). Reserving a ticket online definitely helps in beating the line and the line was LONG. * Had a simple dinner (ramen) at the location itself. * **Day 8 - Nikko** * My friend booked a **private tour (total 70000 yen) to Nikko.** * The ride there was painfully long (nearly 3hrs), but the views at Nikko were magnificient as we arrived to pre/peaking red/orange/golden leaves. Watched a Japanese TV programme earlier in the trip ranking the best places to view fall foliage n Japan, and Nikko was ranked number 1. I could understand why. * Saw Kogen falls, Shinkyo bridge, Toshogu shrine and the other temples. All had beautiful fall foliage, but OMG THE CROWDS. Still, the views were worth it. * Had delicious lunch at a syokudo restaurant (Hippari-Dako) that sold cheap, hearty meals (think yakisoba+rice+chicken skewers for just 900 yen). The chicken was really, really good. Highly recommended. It's rated 4.5 stars for a reason. * **Day 9 - Asakusa (Exploring/Strolling)** * As our flight was at 10pm, we mostly walked around Asakusa and took many toilet breaks back at the hotel. It was honestly a day to shop and i bought loads of Anessa, canmake, &amp;honey, tsubaki and compression socks (love love love Qtto) That's all for my trip report. I still haven't really fully processed how I feel, other than the fact that I absolutely fell in love with the places I went. There's just an inexplicable rawness about the region that I still can't quite put into words. That said, I apologise if my writing was all over the place! I tend to get side-tracked very easily. If anyone has questions, feel free to drop me a DM :)"}
{"id": "0066", "text": "Just got back from 12 fab days in Japan :) Am a frequent Japan visitor, so thought would summarise our trip overall if useful to anyone! **Us and our travel style:** Mid-thirty DINKs, travelled with my parents (60s) and younger brother (early 30s). Parents were happy to go a little plusher and comfortable (they insisted we spring for Green Class trains) so were not budget, but were not mega bougee either, I like a balance of nice and comfortable things at good value. Were a very food oriented family, Im big into Pokemon and games, and also love the secondhand luxury bag market in Japan. My brother likes Anime. We otherwise just like walking around and taking in the city/town were in. **Itinerary summary:** * Day 1 - Osaka - Landed in Osaka late (flight delays), checked in in Namba, went to Uniqlo to get clothes (luggage delay) and got dinner * Day 2 - Osaka - Brunch at Ramen Kuon (booked online for 10:30am), then headed to Umeda area, went to the Umeda Sky Building, went to Shinsaibashi for some shopping, then dinner reservation at Sushi Hamada * Day 3 - Kanazawa - Took the train to Kanazawa, went to the Pokemon Centre near the station, checked into hotel and then headed to the Higashi Chaya area. Dinner reservation at Fuwari * Day 4 - Kanazawa - Omicho market in the morning, Kanazawa Palace grounds, Kenroku-en Garden, Nagamachi Samurai District, Nomura Samurai house, shopping in the afternoon/evening * Day 5 - Kanazawa - Omicho market again, Fukumitsuya Sake brewery tour, shopping and chilling * Day 6 - Shirakawa-go - got a private car (Kanazawa Tours) to pick us up and our luggage to take us to Shiarakawa-go for a tour and then drop us off in Takayama * Day 7 - Takayama - Miyagawa Morning market, Festival floats museum, Takayama castle ruins walk * Day 8 - Takayama / Osaka - Takayama Jinya, shopping, train to Osaka * Day 9 - Day trip to Nara - Nakatanidou, Kofuku-ji, Todai-ji - back to Osaka in the afternoon, shopping in America-kura and Shinsaibashi * Day 10 - Osaka - Kuromon market, Osaka castle, Shinsekai, Tower knives * Day 11 - Osaka - last round of shopping/pokemon card hunting before heading to airport hotel since our flight was early the next morning **e-SIM:** Used Ubigi initially, mum and hubby had no problems, mine randomly dropped out 3 days in, but contacted support and fixed it. Got 1GB of Airalo to keep me going in-between and will probably use that in the future, the app is much better. Overall used about 6-7GB, but I used it quite a bit in terms of Google maps, searching restaurants etc **Accommodation:** * I booked hotels as far in advance as I could, I think most rooms were booked in about 6 months out. I averaged $150 AUD/$100 USD per room per night, and looking at the rooms I booked closer to the date the rates definitely went up. * Osaka - Citadines Namba - LOVED this hotel, rooms are VERY spacious by Japan city standards, modern and bright. Right in the heart of Den Den town which was perfect for my brother to look at anime things, and for me to look at Pokemon cards (haha). It was only a 15-20min walk to Shinsaibashi, and 15 minutes to Shinsekai. * Kanazawa - Kanazawa Zoushi - Such a cute little hotel, best bath of the hotels we stayed in. Served complimentary udon for supper! * Takayama - Takayama Wood - perfectly placed hotel to explore the old town, literally in the heart of it. Had an onsen too which was nice * Osaka - Nikko Kanasai Airport hotel - literally 3 min walk to the airport! Perfect for the early morning flight we had **Travel:** I pre-booked all our trains (mix of direct from JR West site and SmartEx depending on the type of train), being a big group it just meant we could stay together, and Im a Type A personality so prefer knowing exactly where we need to be and where well be haha **Food:** I was a bit torn when planning on how much to book in vs how much to just see what we felt like etc. So had some dinners booked, and some nights open. In hindsight, because we were a group of 5, and my parents being a bit older probably dont have the capacity for waiting as long, I would definitely plan to book things a bit more. Whether that was booking online, or identifying restaurants to get the hotel concierge to help book. Places we ate: Osaka * Ramen Kuon - Michelin recommended ramen restaurant in a really random location haha, can book online for 10:30am which was perfect for us. Was delicious - we were in and out in 30 mins * Sushi Hamada - Found this browsing on Google Maps, seemed newish and loved the idea of supporting a female sushi chef! Booked online. Was incredible value at around AUD $150 per person, about 17 courses, unlimited booze (had some great sake) and dessert! Was definitely a more relaxed vibe than some other sushi omakases weve done, with music in the background and chefs banter with us. * Aktr sports supply - super cool clothing and coffee shop in America-kura - just LOVED the vibe here * Rokusen Sushi Tutenkaku Honten - visited here for lunch in Shinsekai and was honestly one of the best meals! The lunch specials were incredible value between 1000-2000 yen (AUD10-20), and we just had a whole table of multiple bento boxes, couldnt believe the value here. Seemed to be a fairly local spot as well which was nice * Sakimoto bakery/coffee - Another really cute spot - bakery was awesome * Yakitori Bird - our last dinner in Osaka, was so great, modern Yakitori/izakaya and super delicious. No English menus so Google Translate + my broken Japanese worked very hard, although the staff did speak very decent English to the other tourists around us. Got the hotel to help book this restaurant for dinner * 7/11 Curry Pan - I know people love Lawson fried chicken, but 7/11s curry pan served warm is my FAV Kanazawa * Nodoguro - keep an eye out for anything made with the local fish - its so delicious. In the market we had Nodoguro croquettes, and also seared over rice * Sushi Issey - booked online and SO RECOMMENDED. One of the best meals of the trip, amazing Sushi omakase. * Fukumitsuya Sake Brewery tasting - Another highlight of our trip, honestly all the other sakes we had after this tour were just not as good. I wanted to do the premium tasting but unfortunately they didnt have it available on the day I wanted to book, so did the standard. Asked to try other sakes and got a taste of everything anyway! Helped us select sake to buy, and then shipped it to our final hotel in Osaka. Takayama * Just eat Hida beef. Its so good. * We had it at Aji-no-yohei - traditional Japanese style, we walked in for this one * Butchers - a more western style steakhouse, asked the hotel to help us make a reservation for this one * Centr4burgers - where we had it in burger format. Other bits and pieces: * **Osaka castle** \\- Pre-buy your tickets! Theyre valid for 3 months, any day, and the queue to buy tickets on the day when we showed up was SO long. We walked right in. Admittedly the castle is more impressive from the outside than inside, but the view from the top is nice * **Tax Free** \\- Had my passport on me at all times so was constantly getting tax free. If youre doing a Donki haul in Osaka, the Namba store was smaller but way more chill than Dohtonbori, I only had to wait behind one or two people for the Tax Free counter. When we left, I mentioned to the check-in staff I had tax free stuff checked in (cause we had bought a lot of stuff). There were also custom kiosks to scan passports at after security but had no problem walking straight past them, there was no one trying to get us to use them. * **Suica cards on iPhones** \\- set it up. SO convenient. * **Pokemon Centres** \\- avoid weekend afternoons, mad house! Always busy, but generally more manageable in the morning. * **Kanazawa/Takayama -** I really ummed and aahed about how long to spend between Kanazawa and Takayama. In hindsight, I think I couldve reduced Kanazawa down to 2 nights, I probably didnt fall in love with it as much as I wanted? 2 nights in Takayama was perfect, I absolutely loved the vibe in old town, so gorgeous - and was kind of surprised that I liked it more than Kanazawa. I did find Takyama more overwhelming initially when we arrive later afternoon, as its crowded but its really ALL tourists and not that many locals, which gives the crowds a different vibe. Hope that's helpful to someone! Happy to answer any q's :)"}
{"id": "0067", "text": "We're just back from 7 full days &amp; nights in Japan and wanted to share details of our trip in the event it's helpful or interesting to someone reading this. This was our second trip, first trip was in 2019. We are a 40ish married couple who are comparatively fast/active travelers. Poor Japanese abilities but enough to get around. We really don't like crowds and love nature and hiking. We brought one backpack per person which was plenty for our clothes and small souvenirs. **Flights**: We flew **ANA economy** from JFK on the new (3-4-3) 777. We sat in the second row (31) and the window seat had less space than usual under the seat due to row 30 being an emergency exit row. The plane was not hot and we had individual air nozzles. I was comfortable wearing a hoodie. The food was subpar on the way there and much better coming home. Service was great, especially for passengers with babies - they brought out special toys and bassinets and all sorts of stuff. Some ANA international flights arrive and depart from **Terminal 2 at Haneda**, including ours. Arriving there is AWESOME - it took us 3 minutes to go through customs and there was no line to take a shower. The food/shopping options inside security at Terminal 2 are terrible and you are not allowed to exit and re-enter, so if you want to eat or shop at the airport on the way out, do it before security. **Hotels:** We spent a total of $1,383 USD for 2 people for 7 nights. We chose nice-ish business hotels that had bigger beds and public baths that averaged $170ish/night. We also included a splurge on one night at a resort with meals included. With proper advance planning you could stay for much cheaper than we did and still be comfortable. **Transportation:** We used public transportation exclusively: local train, limited express, shinkansen, and bus. No rail pass. It took some getting used to having to visit ATMs to refill IC cards and buy train tickets, but we figured it out. Cash was useful on the bus. Take a ticket and pay fare when you get off - on the bus we took from Nagano to Togakushi they can make change for 1000 yen notes but not the new 500 yen coins. **Itinerary:** Photo album **Day 1: Tokyo (1 night) - 30,174 steps** * Arrived at 5 AM at HND, took showers at the airport in Terminal 2 * Dropped bags off at hotel: **Almont Nippori** (JR Nippori station, on Yamanote Line and also direct access to Narita). * Explored Yanaka Cemetery and area, visited Tokyo National Museum. * Checked out **Akihabara.** Pretty neat to walk around for an hour or so. We love **Mandarake**. * Afternoon snacks and drinks at **Nikujiru Gyoza No Dandadan Nishinippori** near the hotel. Fried cheese w/salt is so good. * Checked into hotel and used the public bath. It was really nice - no wonder this place is always sold out. * Dinner at **Sushi Mihiro** in Nezu. Really good omakase course - 15 pieces for 5300 yen, plus incredible fried oysters. Modern, non-stuffy vibe. The chef is young, speaks some English, and the sushi was a little more saucy and experimental than other more traditional Edomae sushi places. Because our reservation was 5:30 pm on a Wednesday, it was just us and one local guy who was a regular. **Day 2: Matsumoto (2 nights) - 23,714 steps** * Train from Shinjuku to Matsumoto on **Azusa Limited Express.** We bought tickets same day and the one we wanted was full so we had to wait until the next train. In the future I would buy tickets ahead of time. * Dropped bags off at hotel: **Onyado Nono Matsumoto Premium Hot Spring.** This is a premium Dormy Inn brand hotel with traditional Japanese decor and rooms. No shoes in the hotel. Best public bath facilities of our trip - indoor and outdoor hot soaking tubs, cold pool and sauna. * Explored town on foot, stopping by **Agatanomori Park, AEON Mall, Matsumoto Castle, Nawate-dori and Nakamichi-dori**. Stopped for beers at **Matsumoto Brewing** \\- both taprooms. * After a nap, we went to **Amiya** for dinner, which is a spectacular restaurant that only serves hamburg patties over rice. They don't take reservations. The staff speak great English. Matsumoto is famous for wasabi and there is pickled and fresh wasabi + several varieties of shichimi (seven spice) to sauce up your burger. **Day 3: Nakasendo Hike &amp; Matsumoto - 29,460 steps** * Took a local train to **Yabuhara** station, where we hiked **Torii Pass** to **Narai-juku.** The hike took us about 2 hours. It is over a mountain and down the other side, with public toilets at both ends and in the middle. Nice changing colors in the trees and **Ontake Shrine** at the top was beautiful. We walked really fast because there was a large tour group behind us. * We caught the 11:26 am train back from Narai to Matsumoto. Had duck ramen from **Komugi Soba Ike** for lunch. Very light, fresh flavors - not heavy like tonkotsu ramen. * Went back to **AEON Mall** to do some shopping and got stuck there for a while. * Headed to **Matsumoto Tsunagu Yokocho** for first dinner and drinks after an accidental nap. This is a cool indoor space with 10 different stalls. You're encouraged to eat and drink a little at each one. We had crab croquettes at the Hokkaido-themed stall and moved on because it was really crowded (mostly locals but tourists are welcome) and not an amazing price/quality ratio. * For second dinner, we walked into **Yaegi** which is a gorgeous, small izakaya on a side street near the train station. It was almost full but we got a table! Here we had Caesar salad, yakitori and a wonderful broiled cod that melted in our mouth. **Day 4: Togakushi &amp; Nagano - 32,810 steps** * From Matsumoto we took a local train to Nagano. The train was cold and I was very glad to be wearing my puffy jacket. I was so excited to see the view from **Obasute station** but it was early and therefore foggy. * Took Alpico bus #70 from Nagano to **Togakushi** to hike the shrines. We chose to get off at **Togakushi-Hokosha** and hike up to **Chusha** and **Okusha** (the famous one with cedar trees), then hike down via **Kagami-Ike.** This turned out to be an epic hiking day with lots and lots of stone steps. I would highly recommend it to anyone with an interest in great mountain views and shrines. * Checked into hotel for the night, **Chisun Grand Nagano.** Pretty average, no public bath, but their coffee machine in the lobby is on all night! * **Nagano City** gets a lot of shit for being boring but it's pretty lively around the station on a Saturday night. We stopped at an izakaya that specializes in Okinawan pig-related organ meats and a dirt cheap sushi spot, neither of which I can find in the light of day. Both were packed with locals and had open seats. **Day 5: Nagano &amp; Izu Peninsula - 17,452 steps** * In the morning we walked from our hotel to **Zenkoji,** which is one of the most famous temples in Japan. We got there about 7:00 am and very few people were there, and we could watch and hear a morning service taking place. It was a beautiful experience. * Took the Kagayaki (Hokuriku) shinkansen from Nagano to Tokyo, then the Kodama (Tokaido) shinkansen from Tokyo to **Atami** which was a fucking zoo on Sunday at lunchtime. From Atami, we took a local train to **Futo** station. This turned out to be a really cool sightseeing train with bench seats facing the ocean. * Walked down a huge steep hill and along a highway to reach **ISANA Resort**. I cannot say enough great things about this place. * The food they serve is AMAZING. Dinner is French kaiseki with locally caught fish and 5 month dry aged wagyu beef, served over a 2 hour course with two desserts. Breakfast was Japanese traditional style with top-level ingredients. I counted 33 plates for breakfast for two. * All rooms include private outdoor open-air baths with an ocean view, and the rooms themselves are huge by Japanese standards. We booked the suite, which is 60 sq m (646 sq ft in freedom units). There is also a smart TV in the room. * You can reserve the private onsen with ocean view for yourself and your sweetie/friends. * It was only $373 USD/52,400 yen/night for two people to stay in the suite including dinner and breakfast. This is like what people pay to stay in a normal hotel in Shibuya that doesn't include anything. **Day 6: Jogasaki Coast &amp; Tokyo - 29,841 steps** * After our WONDERFUL breakfast and rest day, we were ready for more hiking - so we headed to **Jogasaki-Kaigan** station to hike along the coast and soak in the incredible coastal scenery. This area is pretty famous and there was at least one Chinese tour bus there, but everyone congregated near the **Kadowaki Suspension Bridge** area. * We followed the **Jogasaki Nature Study Course** trail via **Renchaku-ji** temple. There are lots and lots of Joro spiders around so if you're tall, pay attention to your surroundings so you don't get a faceful. * After our hike, we took a local train and Kodama shinkansen to Shinagawa station, where we spent 2 nights at the **Mitsui Garden Hotel** in Gotanda. This hotel was nice - gorgeous city views from the 15th floor lobby and a decent sized room. * We really liked Gotanda as a base - it's on the Yamanote line between Shinagawa and Shibuya, so near the bottom of the loop. It is a mostly commercial area with lots of cheap places to eat and drink, including what appears to be a shopping mall full of bars at **Gotanda Hills.** * In the evening we had a standing sushi bar snack at **Sushi Uogashi Nihon Ichi Gotanda,** then met up with a friend in Shinjuku where my husband got a great deal on a used camera from **Map Camera**. We had conveyor belt sushi for dinner at **Oedo Shinjukuminamiguchiten.** * Finished the night at a cozy, friendly rock-themed whiskey bar in the Gotanda Hills bar-mall, **Stone Cold.** **Day 7: Tokyo - 25,958 steps** * We were massively hungover so we stopped by **Oniyanma** udon shop under the bridge by Gotanda station at 8 am. The chicken tempura udon was phenomenal - no wonder there was a line. * Walked from Gotanda to Meguro by the river and did some shopping at a department store near Meguro station. * In the afternoon, we visited **Ochanomizu** so I could take a picture of three trains at once from **Hijiri Bridge.** Ochanomizu is a very cute student-y neighborhood with a lot of musical instrument shops - a must for anyone who likes guitars. * Walked from Ochanomizu to the **Onitsuka Tiger** store in Ueno-Okachimachi via Akihabara, stopping to see **Kanda Myojin Shrine.** * Met up with a friend near Ginza, which is cool to walk through at night. We had beers at **Sapporo \"The Bar\"** and a fantastic tonkatsu dinner at **Tonkatsu Hasegawa Higashiginza.** * Walked up to **Yurakucho** station to take pictures of passing trains before heading to the hotel for our last night before the flight back to NY in the morning. **Takeaways &amp; Tips:** * 7 days is not much time at all, but for two people who desperately needed a break from stressful jobs and don't have a bathtub at home, it worked great for us. I had planned this trip obsessively for months leading up to it and got very burned out feeling about a week prior, but as soon as we left our house to go to the airport the excitement was back! * There do seem to be a lot more tourists than in 2019 but it is still very easy to avoid congested areas and tourist traps if you are willing to pass over the most popular attractions or go at funky times. * Japanese people like to be warm indoors. Trains, stores, etc. are warm bordering on hot, so layers are a good idea. * Everyone says this but I'll say it again - **wear the right shoes and don't wear shitty socks!** I wore wool socks and my Hokas every day and got zero blisters. According to my watch we walked 92 miles/148 km in seven days, so I'll take that as a win. * Finally - it seems like lots of people in Japan have some kind of respiratory virus this time of year, so bring headphones for trains if you don't want to listen to people choking on phlegm the entire time. I was really gla I did. On public transportation including planes I'd say at least 50% or more of Japanese people wore masks."}
{"id": "0068", "text": "I recently came back from my first trip to Japan with my aunt to visit some family and roughly followed the golden route when it came to planning. It was more of a spontaneous decision so I only had about a month or so of prep time. I'm very fond of architecture and exploring as I go so we often just walked around the area. We also spent quite a lot of time shopping :D **Pre-planning tips and recommendations** * Get Ubigi e-sim: super easy and painless to set up and there is always a 20% off coupon somewhere, it will save you money and time and the hassle of buying a SIM when you arrive. Ubigi worked as soon as I touched down. * Yamato Transport: the little black cat saved us the hassle of lugging around multiple suitcases worth of souvenirs and gifts through sometimes very long subway stations and rush hours. 100% recommend. Most staff can speak English if not a little google translate goes a long way. Keep in mind most hotels can only ship luggage for it to arrive the following day to be sure to plan accordingly. It also took us an embarrassingly long time to realize that most convenience stores offer the same luggage shipping services as the hotel and sometimes at a cheaper rate so be sure to check them out. * Sugi Drug mart: sells necessary and emergency over the counter medicine and is almost everywhere, we needed it due to a deer allergy at Nara * Google maps is your best friend but does not do well in navigating buildings with lots of floors. * Book specific experiences in advance to structure certain days but I wouldnt stress too much about packing everyday with specific times as it get slightly overwhelming (we booked) * Tea Ceremony and Kimono Experience at Kyoto Maikoya * Bus tickets to Shirakawago from Kanazawa) * Kaiseki dinner with a ryokan we stayed at Kaga * Get comfortable shoes: cannot recommend enough if you are not used to walking long distances in the city, the miles really take a toll on you and the last thing you want is to be tired before your trip has even begun. **Itinerary** **Chiba** Day 1 Flew in via JFK and landed around 5 am at Tokyo Haneda and drove to Chiba to stay with my cousins. I decided I would just tough it out with the jet lag after chilling for like 2 hours, and went straight to **Kamogawa Sea World** for the afternoon. It was more of a local aquarium/sea world so all the introductions and information on the animals were made in Japanese. I also mistook one of the sleeping walruses for a statue -.- I ate the first of many many soft creams on my trip and for dinner we ate at a family restaurant with a set menu, it was so good for the price! **Mt Fuji Region** Day 2 We headed out early for a road trip to Mt Fuji, visiting **Makaino Farm** with a huge grassy slope where you can feed sheep and goats pellets and carrots and saw some glimpses of the elusive mountain while eating more soft cream. Stayed in a ryokan with a kaiseki dinner and rotenburo. The dinner included some really good sashimi but I am not a fan of crispy garlic and we were greeted with a cloudy view of Fuji-san in the morning and all you can eat buffet style breakfast. Day 3 We checked out **Oshino Hakkai,** which had crystal clear ponds and gave us the best view of Mt. Fuji up on the viewing platform that cost around $3. **Fujiyoshida** is awesome for Fuji Q Highland but we just stopped by for its famous street with Mt. Fuji in the background. It was quite the drive back to Chiba. **Chiba** Day 4 Didnt do much, just hung out with family. Day 5 Ventured out on my own for the first time and explored the **Peria mall** around Chiba station (much prefer the Aeon Malls after completing my trip). Then I traveled to Narita to pick up my aunt. **Asakusa** Day 6 Arrived around lunch time, checked into the hotel and then walked right into Uniqlo and did some damage. We visited **Senso-ji Temple** which was crowded for an off-season but still very impressive in its size and structure as it was the first temple on our journey. Then explored the shopping streets in and around Asakusa and got a matcha float. Headed to **Shibuya Parco** at night, said hi to Hachiko, stopped by the Starbucks at **Shibuya Crossing** and visited the **Starbucks Reserve Roastery Tokyo** in Meguro. Day 7 Started the morning off at **Tokyo National Museum** in **Ueno Park**, the park was pretty quiet in the morning hours and the further into the Museum the less people there were, with a variety of ancient scrolls, paintings, ceramics and buddha statues. During lunch there were several yatai set up for a food festival and we had to get takoyaki and grilled fish. We then went to **Ikebukuro** for its Animate store and I found I enjoyed it more than Akihabara. Visiting **Meiji Jingu** in **Yoyogi Park** was amazing at dusk but the atmosphere walking into the park leading up the shrine was slightly haunting due to a large group of crows that kept on calling which kind of added to the chill of the dense forest. We then stopped by **Akihabara** at night for a quick walk around and Book Off. **Hakone** Day 8 It took absolutely forever to get to our ryokan in Hakone due to the slow bus and traffic in the mountain roads but we managed to visit the **Hakone Open-Air Museum** and it was honestly quite impressive, as someone who is generally not a fan of modern art, it had great architectural landscaping that allowed each art piece to breathe and did not feel overcrowded at all. The cafe in the center of the park hit the spot even if there were only two food options: hotdog and a muffin. The whole park was really conceptual but very well curated and laid out. **Hakone Kamakura Yokohama** Day 9 BE PATIENT, the bus in Hakone is absolutely brutal and if you can drive, DRIVE. We waited for about an hour after bus driver upon bus driver told us the bus was full and that we would have to wait for the next one. But we managed to finally catch the bus and not miss our ride on the **Togendai Pirate Ship**, which gave us a clear view of the iconic red **Heiwa no Torii** in the water and took us directly to the cable car leading up to **Owakudani.** There is also a regular ferry but the pirate ship was just more fun bc obviously. The view of Owakudani from the cable car looked as if there were pockets of steam rising from the mountainside and lowkey looked like forest fire smoke. Around mid-afternoon we caught the train to Kamakura to see the **Kotoku-in** which enshrines the Great Buddha statue, once again, dusk was the perfect time to capture photos and walk around without it being overly hot as fall still hadnt quite come. I ate more soft serve and headed up to Yokohama for the night. I got a kebab for dinner and it was amazing. **Osaka** Day 10 Arrived in Osaka, ate some of the best butter chicken curry Ive ever had in Nishishinsaibashi, then took a walking tour path from **Amerika-Mura** to **Shinsaibashi Shopping Street** which is great for casual streetwear and has lots of international brands. I already liked the vibe of Osaka more, you could immediately feel it was more laid back than Tokyo, the shop staff were more friendly and much more willing to consistently try to talk. We had to pay a visit to Mr Glico Man at **Dotonbori,** stopped by a small shrine in the heart of **Hozenji Yokocho**, and saw the fierce facade of the **Namba Yasaka Jinja**. It was slightly sad that it appeared like an oasis between the high rises because it was facing a hotel I think? that was towering over it but also made it feel like another block on the street. We had to check out the Namba City shopping mall and if I recall correctly, there were quite a few boutiques on the B2 level selling very cute clothing. Day 11 Started a relatively slow day at **Himeji Castle**, exploring the castle grounds.I visited Koko-en gardens thinking there might be some fall foliage and I was greeted with absolutely nothing but it was a nice walk. The interior of Himeji Castle is mostly preserved but the rooms did start to get a little repetitive after a while. Id still say I think its good to visit the interior once because there were some insanely steep and slippery wooden steps to climb. We visited **Osaka Castle** in the evening, saw it lit up with lights and passed by a massive concert being played at Osaka Jo Hall and had some very nice tonkatsu in the park adjacent to the castle. **Osaka Nara Kyoto** Day 12 Feeding the deer at **Nara**, we saw some deer fighting, head butting a poor girl off the steps and biting tourists butt for food. Very cute but kind of aggressive. 7/10. Walking all around the Nara Park area, **Todai-ji** was very impressive, configured in a giant courtyard setting with really huge Buddha and guardian statues inside. We also stopped by the temple buildings of Todai-ji around the area. **Isuien Gardens and Museum** was serene and quiet but there was a very nice garden a little bit ahead of Isuien that was free and I felt like it was quite similar if not a little bit bigger but nevertheless, worth the walk around the park. Ate a very brunch style late lunch and headed directly to Kyoto afterwards. Day 13 For our first full day in Kyoto, we booked an all day tour with lunch included with Sunrise Tours and both our tour guides for the morning and afternoon were really wonderful. We first saw **Nijo Castle**, a residence for the Tokugawa Shogun, then **Kinkaku-ji** which was expectedly packed, I chatted with our tour guide Yoshi-san who spoke very good english and was also really good at trivia from around the world, listing out language similarities in other countries that were similar to Japanese. The **Kyoto Imperial Palace** didnt allow for much sightseeing into the buildings but the grounds were manicured to perfection as befitting of the emperor. Lunch was short but catered to vegetarians and a solid 8/10. We then switched buses and tour guides and saw the **Fushimi Inari Taisha**, didn't get a chance to hike all the way up though, it wouldve been better in the morning hours. What really impressed me was the **Sanjusangen-do Temple**, which houses 1,001 statues of Kannon deities, each with multiple heads and arms and the sheer amount of statues was just insanely impressive, but no photos allowed like many temple interiors. Our last stop was the **Kiyomizu-dera Temple** and **Sannenzaka** and another soft cream. Day 14 I prebooked a tea ceremony and kimono rental at **Kyoto Maikoya** and our tea ceremony master was a very sweet and friendly lady who gave us a short demonstration of a part of the tea ceremony and she really emphasized the phrase, ichi go ichi e one chance, one encounter and said that our tea ceremony today was also ichi go ichi e and in the quiet of the teahouse, I have to say it did move me a little. Since kimono rental was the whole day, we visited **Yasaka Shrine** in Gion before returning them. We had lunch near **Hokan-ji** and then revisited the **Sannenzaka and Ninenzaka** area to shop for souvenirs. Day 15 I started the morning off at **Arashiyama Bamboo grove** and since it looked like it was about to rain, there weren't that many people on the trail. I walked to **Sagano Bamboo forest** as well before stopping by a secluded temple called **Jojakkoji** slightly off the main path and then the rain started pouring down. I took shelter in a courtyard house, but since I was really determined to still see the temple, when the rain subsided I was the only person in the quiet groves and stairs. I had originally wanted to visit Tenryu-ji but so glad I stopped by Jojakkoji. Since I still desperately needed an umbrella I stopped by a small pottery studio and shop nearby but slightly off the beaten track and met a very kindly old shop owner who not only sold me a tanuki statue but also deducted the tax and umbrella fee from the total. I swear his shop was something straight out of a ghibli film, especially with the heavy rain pouring down, foggy and damp. But when I walked out onto the main street leading up the station the magic was gone. I met up again with my aunt later in the afternoon to walk the **Philosopher's Walk** and we visited **Okazaki Shrine, Nanzen-ji** and a multitude of shrines and temples in the area before stopping at the famous Blue Bottle cafe for a bite before visiting the **Kyoto Handicraft center** for souvenirs and pottery. **Kaga** Day 16 Slow morning, stopped by a bakery near the station to eat curry bread and took several trains into the countryside to reach **Kaga**. We had no major plans besides enjoying the kaiseki dinner and private bath the ryokan had to offer. It was a very quiet, sleepy resort town with affordable prices and frequented by many locals. I really recommend you to find a few spots on your trip without many major online recommendations that look beyond the major cities if youre a big fan of a more serene escape in nature. They also cater to all sorts of diet restrictions as we ordered one vegetarian and one without sashimi. I would say it was like a holiday within a holiday. **Kanazawa** Day 17 We may or may not have spent way too much time in the mall near Kaga Station buying clothes because everything was so affordable and very Japanese casual style, with academia vibes and muted tones. I think we spent about 2 hours in the same store. Most of the staff dont speak English here but it wasnt that much of an issue and we also managed to ship some items back to my cousins place. We then caught the Shinkansen through Fukui and arrived at Kanazawa. We visited the **Nagamachi Samurai District** and picked up more local Kutani pottery before having dinner at a local family run restaurant which served crab. **Kanazawa Shirakawago Kanazawa** Day 18 Spent most of the day at **Shirakawago**, which takes quite some time to get to but it was pretty unique and we had the best butter toast and red bean paste at a very very cute cafe that let you pick out the cup set you wanted to use for coffee and there was studio ghibli bgm. We sat around an open hearth with a pot of red bean soup boiling underneath and it was amazing. **Kanazawa Tokyo** Day 19 Spent the morning exploring **Oyama Shrine** and the **Kanazawa Castle Ruins** area before visiting **Kenrokuen Gardens**, it started to get a little rainy by the time we left Kanazawa to head back to Tokyo. It was already evening by the time we checked in and we headed into Ginza to shop. **Tokyo Chiba** Day 20 We saw **Tokyo Tower** in the morning, and again at **Zozo-ji** before doing more shopping in Ginza and Tokyo station area. We visited Itoya, Tokyu Hands, Tokyo Station Character street and Daimaru at Tokyo Station. Before it got fully dark we headed back to Chiba. Day 21 More shopping at Mitsui Outlets, met up with my cousins and then had soba for lunch and visited Uniqlo nearby before a final ramen dinner. Day 22 Caught the first bus out to Haneda and flew home **Final Thoughts:** I honestly loved the trip, I would definitely come back and explore North Japan or venture south to Fukuoka and Okinawa. I really liked the vibe of Osaka and the cities on the west coast but most importantly, it was just really nice to see family. I ended up visiting the Mt Fuji region twice with my cousins first and then my aunt because they had already prebooked the stay and I didn't know (it was a last minute trip after all) but since it was different regions I still had a nice time. A little bit of Japanese will be useful and just look around at what other people are doing, etc you stand on the left on escalators in Tokyo and on the right in Osaka. Trains are also generally quiet and you will realize pretty quickly if a foreigner is talking loud. Dont overpack, there is literally everything you could ever need within walking distance so you can bring more clothes and souvenirs back. I want to thank everyone else's itineraries that helped me in planning so its only right I also leave my tidbit. have fun!"}
{"id": "0069", "text": "Thought I'd share some notes for anyone planning a similar trip. Here's how its all gone so far: ## Trip Overview - **Planning Approach**: We didnt pre-plan the days much. We saved a bunch of things we wanted to do on Tripadvisor and tried to minimize travel by grouping them geographically. On the day, we often pivoted depending on what we fancied doing next or the weather (mostly good but some rain). - **Reason for Choosing Tokyo**: We picked Tokyo because my son is a big fan of manga/Ghibli and I wanted to come back. I didn't want to spend time travelling out of Tokyo as there's so much to do there for the amount of time we had. - **Pre-booking**: The only things we needed to pre-book were the two main TeamLabs experiences. I booked a fortnight in advance to get early times when its less busy. Unfortunately, I tried to book the Ghibli Museum over a month in advance, and it was already sold out. - **Language Prep**: In the lead-up to the trip, I spent about 20 minutes a day learning basic Japanese on Duolingo. It was good for learning grammar but wasn't very helpful for practical phrases most useful for a short holiday. So, I switched to ChatGPT for the last week, and it was much better. I just asked it which phrases I would need for our situation and got it to quiz me on them a few times. No Japanese is necessary, but the locals seemed to appreciate the effort. - **Dates**: October 29 - November 5 - **Base**: Our hotel was Remm Roppongi, which was absolutely fine. The rooms were big enough, clean, secure, and the staff were friendly. Last time I came to Japan, about 20 years ago, I also stayed in Roppongi and then traveled around the rest of the country for a month. Roppongis main street gets a bit spicy after darkgrabby middle-aged hookers, African touts, rent boys for women. They all left us alone when I was with my son, though they pestered potential clients. English is pretty much expected in the area though and its central. I never felt unsafe in either Roppongi or anywhere else in Tokyo. - **Getting there**: We flew Air China from London. It was the cheapest option and pretty good. Food was decent. Only issue was a slow international transfer queue at Shanghai. 19 hours door to door, we live an hour from Gatwick and flew to Narita. Only taking hand luggage made things easier (just a regular size rucksack filled with the lighter things, and a small roller case with electronics, shoes etc). ## Day-by-Day Highlights ### Day 1: National Art Centre &amp; Harajuku The free exhibition at the NAC wasn't much to shout about (2/5), but the paid Tanaami exhibition was awesome (5/5). Shibuya Crossing barely engaged us for a minute (2/5), but people-watching and browsing in Harajuku was interesting including Takeshita Street (4/5). We also stumbled across the free TeamLabs Galaxy exhibition (2/5). ### Day 2: National Museum and Akihabara We visited both the permanent and paid museum exhibitions (4/5) then wandered around Ueno Park (3/5) and Akihabara (4/5). ### Day 3: TeamLabs Planets &amp; Nature/Science Museum TeamLabs Planets was pretty good (4/5), but the crowding made it quite claustrophobic. The Nature and Science Museum was okay, but descriptions were often in Japanese only (3/5). ### Day 4: Art and Shrines We visited Yoyogi Park, Meiji Shrine, and the Museum of Western Art. All were enjoyable (4/5). ### Day 5: TeamLabs Borderless and Odaiba We both thought Borderless was excellent and the best TeamLabs experience in Tokyo (5/5). Afterwards, we checked out Odaiba (4/5), the Gundam statue (4/5), and Joypolis (3/5). The Gundam statue was cool, but the transformation was a bit of an anticlimax. Joypolis (3/5) would be more fun if you invested in a day pass. We went towards the end of the day, so we only paid for the rollercoaster which was just okay. ### Day 6: Skytree, Asakusa, &amp; Ueno Zoo Skytree was spectacularhighly recommend visiting and getting the full ticket for both observation floors (5/5). We wandered around Asakusa (4/5) and visited the Senso-ji Temple (4/5). Ueno Zoo (2/5) was more of a mixed experiencesome enclosures felt too small, and it was upsetting to see animals like polar bears and tigers in cramped conditions. ### Day 7: Final Day Started with a visit to the Mori Art Gallery before our flight. The current Louise Bourgeois exhibition is interesting (4/5). ## More - **Suica on Apple Transit**: Setting up a Suica card on Apple Wallet made getting around on the excellent public transport easier. No need to fumble with cash or buy tickets each timejust tap your phone at the turnstiles. It even worked when our phone batteries had died. - **Food**: We didnt plan any meals ahead of time, and 95% of the food we found was either excellent or pretty good. We averaged about one meal a day in the Tokyo Midtown Roppongi complex across from our hotel. We mainly ate Japanese cuisine, although even after a week my son was still finding chopsticks frustrating (I prefer them). - **Walking**: I typically average 11,000 steps at home, but here we were consistently doing over 20,000 and didnt sit down much during the days. It wasnt a major problem, but it did mean we often didnt feel like doing much after dinner to give our feet a break. - **SIM Cards**: I bought Japanese SIM cards for both of us off Amazon. They were data-only with 1GB/day and worked really well throughout the trip. - **Skyliner train**: I mistakenly thought the Skyliner was covered by tapping in with Suica. Apparently, you need to reserve seats for an additional cost, and I ended up paying the difference at the ticket office after the inspector let me know. - **Payment**: Theres still advice out there that you need cash often in Japan. This wasnt our experience, more places we visited were card only not cash only. If Id know I would have taken much less cash and just used my debit Mastercard nearly everywhere. It was only declined once in a store, and then I used my Suica instead. I used my debit card as my credit card charges a foreign use fee. ## Final Thoughts I've travelled a lot and Tokyo is still my favourite foreign city. It was special to share it with my son. The mix of modern and traditional culture, quirky spots, and amazing food made for a fantastic bonding experience. Yes, it's busy and very stimulating but we both enjoy that despite being introverts. Everything was significantly cheaper than London (the opposite of my last visit 20 years ago). Thanks to this Reddit, I found many of the posts very helpful."}
{"id": "0070", "text": "My partner (31F) and I (36M) just got back from our second trip to Japan, and this time we explored Hokkaido. Our first trip was the classic Golden Route : Tokyo, Mount Fuji (Kawaguchiko), Kyoto, and Nara. It was last August, which was amazing but super hot and humid. We chose Hokkaido this time for cooler weather and to avoid the rainy season. Here is a summary *(sorry, it is quite long!)*. **Day 1: Tokyo Sapporo** We considered both options, train and plane, for getting from Tokyo to Sapporo. The Shinkansen journey to Hokkaido takes about 8 hours, including a transfer in Hakodate. Its also significantly more expensive than flying. Since we only had one week to explore Hokkaido, we opted to fly. Several airlines operate flights between Tokyo and Sapporo, and we chose AirDo. We didnt book any checked luggage, as AirDo allows each passenger one carry-on (up to 55 40 25 cm and 10 kg) plus a personal item. We each packed a small suitcase and a backpack. We took the 11:15am - 12:45pm flight, so we had time to spend the evening in Susukino, the entertainment district. Sapporo is famous for the food, so I would recommend to try local specialities : Soup Curry : This is a Hokkaido specialty, and we tried it at Soup Curry King, located near the railway station. It was absolutely delicious, probably our favorite dish in Sapporo. Ramen We went to Teshikaga Ramen in the Ramen Alley (Ganso Ramen Yokocho) and ordered their butter corn miso ramen. Jingisukan A grilled mutton dish from Hokkaido and named after the Japanese pronunciation of \"Genghis Khan.\" We stayed at the Onsen Ryokan Yuen Sapporo. Highly recommend it! The rooms and onsen were fantastic. **Day 2: Yoichi &amp; Otaru** We kicked off the day by taking the train from Sapporo to Otaru, then grabbed a local bus to Yoichi. There *are* some direct trains from Sapporo to Yoichi, but theyre pretty limited, so this combo worked better for us. The reason why we wanted to go to Yoichi is to discover the Nikka Yoichi Distillery. The distillery closes around 3pm, so thats why we decided to start with Yoichi instead of Otaru. If you're interested in a guided tour of the distillery, be sure to book several weeks in advance \\[edit : they seem to have visit in Japanese only\\]. We didnt book ahead, so we just checked out the free self-guided museum and then hit the tasting bar. I tried the Nikka 10-Year Single Cask, and it was really worth it! If you are into Japanese whisky, I also really enjoyed Ichiro's Malt &amp; Grain Classical and Hakushu, which I found in a couple bars later in the trip. After the distillery, we walked about 30 minutes to Wilderness Coffee Roasters, a little seaside caf with amazing views. Super chill spot. If youre not into walking, theres a local bus that can get you there too. To get from Yoichi to Otaru, we took the local bus again (only a few per day, but it lined up perfectly for us). You can also just head back to the train station and take the train instead. Good to know : Google Map is really accurate in terms of bus / train / metro schedule ! And if you have an iPhone, add a Suica card to your Apple Wallet. Its super convenient for trains, subways, and buses. So we just used that and didn't buy the JR pass. We got to Otaru around 4pm, which Id say is the latest you should arrive. Indeed, most shops start closing around 6 PM. Otarus known for its glass crafts, and the canals are super cute. If you have time, I recommend going to Otaru, but honestly, Yoichi was our favorite. It is way less touristy and more 'authentic'. Ofc if you go to Yoichi you should prepare what you want to do, whereas in Otaru you can just walk around the shopping streets, so it is really depending on what you are looking for. **Day 3: Sapporo** We spent the entire day in Sapporo, though tbh we had already seen most of the main sights during our first afternoon there. I checked out the Sapporo Beer Museum. The entrance is free, but I found it less interesting than the Nikka Yoichi Distillery. You can try the Sapporo Classic (only sold in Hokkaido) but honestly, you'll find it in most bars and restaurants around the region too. In the afternoon, we went on a shopping mission as we needed *(wanted)* to do a day of shopping. If you're not into shopping, one day in Sapporo might be more than enough. We're big fans of Japanese brands and were already familiar with Muji, Uniqlo, GU, Edwin, Momotaro, and Japan Blue Jeans. This time we discovered Montbell, a Japanese outdoor brand that reminded us of Patagonia. If you are interested, there is also a Pokemon Center. I struggled to find it on Google Maps, so if you are looking for it it is located on the 8th floor of the Daimaru Department Store next to Sapporo Station. (and *yes* there is also a Don Quijote in Sapporo in case you wonder!). **Day 4: Sapporo Noboribetsu** We left Sapporo in the morning and took the train to Noboribetsu, followed by a local bus to our hotel. Since it was my birthday, we treated ourselves and booked two nights at the Dai-ichi Takimotokan, one of the most renowned place in the area. The hotel itself is huge, a bit resort-like, but the room was very nice. If you book the Japanese-style room, be prepared for futon-on-the-floor sleep style :) The hotel is famous for hosting over 20 different natural onsen, including sulphur springs, salt springs, sodium springs, etc. The smell is quite strong at the beginning, but you get used to it (kind of). If you're not staying at the hotel, you can still visit the onsen as a day guest for a fee. The hotel is located just 5 min walk from the famous Hell Valley (Jigokudani). It is a must-see in Noboribetsu and it is quite impressive. You need around half a day to see the main spots, like the Oyunuma Pond and the Foot Baths, where you can dip your feet in natural hot water! I loved it. Since we had the whole afternoon free after visiting Hell Valley, we looked into what else we could do in the area. We *thought* about going to the Bear Park, but after reading several articles online about the bad conditions the bears are kept in, we decided to skip it. Instead, we stopped by this little outdoor shop called Adex, just near our hotel. Super helpful staff. One of them recommended a hike with views over Lake Kuttara. He mentioned that bears do live in the wild in Hokkaido, but around Noboribetsu theyre *very shy* . So, we followed his directions and walked along the road until we found the entrance to the forest trail he had mentioned. But right at the trailhead, there was a Japanese sign warning that a bear had been spotted there two months ago. So yeah, we made the decision to turn back and stick to the road. We ended up walking all the way to the Lake Kuttara Fan-shaped Observation Deck. The walk took about an hour, but we were disappointed by the view, which was mostly blocked by bushes. If you have a car, its a fine stop. But if youre walking, like we were, its not really worth the effort. That said, we did spot a deer and a fox from a distance along the way, which was pretty cool. We still wanted to see the lake itself, but the trail down was another 2 km of mountain path. Luckily, we ran into a super nice Japanese couple who offered to give us a ride. The lake itself is beautiful, but again, I wouldn't recommend walking there. Before we left Noboribetsu, we made one last stop at Pizzeria Astra. Their pizzas are made with Hokkaido cheese (or even buffala mozzarella made from Hokkaido milk) and were honestly amazing. Overall, if you are planning a visit to Noboribetsu, and if you don't have a car, my advice would be : focus on the Hell Valley and the onsen. They are absolutely worth it. Stay one night there, or two nights if you really want to enjoy the onsen fully. **Day 5: Noboribetsu Furano** We left Noboribetsu around 9am, took the train back to Sapporo, then connected to Takikawa, and finally hopped a local train to Furano. The whole trip took about 4.5 hours. The view from the last train was really amazing, as the train cuts through open fields and farmland. Looking back, I believe taking the Lavender Express from Sapporo to Furano is the best option ; but there is only one departure from Sapporo at 7:41am, and we obviously could not make it as we left Noboribetsu around 9AM. I know there are also buses from Sapporo to Furano directly. Furano is a cute little town, and youll want to spend at least one full day there. I *highly* recommend renting bikes, and ideally e-bikes. We paid around 1 500 or 2 000 yens for 3 hours and we rode out to the famous Tomita Farm - July is the best time to visit if you want to see the lavender in full bloom. If youre using Google Maps, it will guide you via main roads with traffic. We found that Apple Maps (with avoid main roads or use secondary routes toggled) gave us a far more pleasant route, winding through fields and tiny countryside roads. We wrapped up the day with dinner at an izakaya called Robata, the atmosphere and the food were amazing! **Day 5: Furano Biei** In the morning, we rode over to the Furano Cheese Factory. Here as well you can enjoy a pizza with Hokkaido cheese or buffala on it. We then took the Norokko train around 4pm from Furano to Biei (we had booked tickets in advance at the JR station in Tokyo, but there are some non-reserved seats as well). The train has big open windows and moves slowly, so you get amazing views of Hokkaido's farmland and rolling hills. Be careful, the Norokko Train will be discontinued in 2026, after over 40 years of operation. We arrived in Biei in the evening, and ... yeah there was absolutely nothing to do there during the evening. I would recommend sleeping in Furano, and going to Biei on the next day. **Day 7: Biei Tokyo** Since we stayed overnight in Biei, we took the 9:00am bus to the famous Blue Pond. Going early was a good call to avoid the tour groups. It is a very beautiful spot. That said, youll probably only spend around 20 minutes there, so worth it if you have the time. But if your schedule is tight, I'd say you're better off spending your time biking around Biei. After the Blue Pond, we returned to Biei and rented electric bikes again. This time we spent 3 000 yens for a full day. We rode along part of the famous Panorama Road, all the way to Shikisai-no-Oka Flower Park. The view there was really great and colorful, and I guess July is the best time to see the flowers blooming. It is very touristy though so be prepared. Still worth it, the bike ride getting there was incredible, though be ready for some uphill climbs. After biking, we took a bus from Biei to Asahikawa Airport, then caught our flight back to Tokyo, ending our 7-day journey through Hokkaido. Overall, if you're thinking about going to Hokkaido, DO IT. It feels way more \"wild\" and authentic. The weather in June was perfect, between 22 to 30 degrees celsius. And it is very very less crowded compared to places like Kyoto or other famous spots."}
{"id": "0071", "text": "This is a trip report of first timers couple late 50s, two adult children, USA; 3 vegetarians eating dairy and eggs; traveling light with only carry-on size suitcases. No TeamLab/Ghibli/Disney interest so skip if that is your jam. Interest - Food/art/architecture/local atmosphere/temples. No of days = 1.5 in Tokyo + 2 days Kyoto + 2 days Naoshima + 3 days Tokyo before returning. Arrived in Haneda from Seattle in the afternoon; took less than an hour to clear immigration; walked out and took a cab to the hotel did not feel like dealing with trains and luggage; cab ride is around $60-65 one way into Asakusa. Hotel 1 Asakusa (2 nights) Hotel Gracery Asakusa lovely first hotel experience, quiet neighborhood, easy walk to temple and station; Would highly recommend the hotel. We are so glad to have picked Asakusa for our first foray into Tokyo. Day.5 - Got to visit Sensoji with Sunday crowds but great to stretch our legs and walk around getting the local vibe; walked to the river to catch a sight of the Skytree and walk along the promenade; walked to dinner at this small grandma-grandpa place called Namiki Yabusoba (open till 7:30pm) recommended by a Reddit thread - https://www.reddit.com/r/JapanTravelTips/s/vPZzDd45Qg Day 1 temple lovely in the morning without the crowds, picked up food at a 7/11 and ventured into Shibuya on the train; ate in a food hall ramen place realized cant go wrong picking something walking by! Most places offer an English menu as well as a vegan/vegetarian one else, the wait staff are super willing to ask and confirm the ingredients/nature of the food; although subs are not generally entertained, there are options. Walked out of Shibuya into Aoyoma beautiful neighborhoods; caught the Nezu museum for Asian art one hour before closing. Sat at a bar right around the corner afterwards, just to catch our breath and recover from a 95 degree day of walking around. Went to Savoy Azabujuban for dinner walked in had a wait of abut 25 minutes. Pizza was incredible! https://www.reddit.com/r/Pizza/comments/15g0gx4/savoy\\_tokyo/ Day 2 checked out and TRIED to take the train from Asakusa to Tokyo station for the Shinkansen to Kyoto the morning commute crowds are so dense that getting on a train with bags is virtually impossible. Walked out of the station and caught a cab to Tokyo station; no pre-purchased tickets bought the next superfast Nozomi to Kyoto. Incredible ride for a bunch of train heads!! And the FOOD choices at the station wowza! Kyoto 2 nights stay at the Hotel Miro Nishiki incredible experience of a small boutique hotel with high-end bath products; super helpful staff. GREAT location within minutes of Nishiki market and outside the crowds picked this location as opposed to their Gion location and we were very happy with our stay! Kyoto Afternoon/evening 1 another scorcher of a day had lunch down the road from hotel at a dumpling restaurant many, many choices for food! Cab to visit Kawai Kanjiro Memorial Museum in a quiet neighborhood lovely old home worth the visit! Took a cab into Gion and visited the Kenninji temple anchoring one end of Gion loved our first visit to a Kyoto area temple. Walked afterwards to the Kyoto museum of Contemporary art building itself is worth a visit, not so much the current exhibit. Hotel helped us make a reservation for dinner at a okonomiyaki place very close to the hotel - on the recc of a Reddit post - https://www.kamehameha.website/english; incredible food, staff/service, vibes, and we were so glad to have eaten there! Kyoto Day 2 morning cab to Fushimi Inari TOTALLY recommend going by 8 am as we walked out by 10 am, the place was getting inundated with school groups and tourists. Took the train back to our hotel to freshen up and then took a LONG cab ride to Arashiyama ate at a heritage tofu restaurant in an old estate with gardens great property but be aware that this style of food is very subtle to the point of being bland. It is still quite an experience. Walked along the river beautiful! - to the bamboo groove and could have totally skipped it. Took someones advice from reddit and went in the opposite direction of main street by cab to the Daikakuji temple zero crowds and a fantastic temple experience HIGH recommend. Another long cab ride back into the city and hotel to freshen up; MUST visit the small family-owned brush store httpa://Kousetsuken.com! Dinner at a pizza place near the hotel that was eight-seater Mirata pizza delicious! Then walked into Gion along the river to catch the night vibe on Shirakawa street; came back to the Nishiki area and went to a bar near the hotel to close out our day. Naoshima Journey Note: all museum tickets were purchased BEFORE our trip! Shinkansen from Kyoto station to Uno with a quick change to a local train in Chayamachi no hassle, easy transfer from ne platform to the next. Uno station to Uno port is a walk across the station entrance to the port plaza; signage for the ferry was not clear so we ended up asking locals to translate the signs. Walk to the ferry ended up being more round about than we thought but still, all within a few minute distance of the train station. There is a visitor center try to find it for info and restrooms. Stayed at the Wegner House, My Lodge Naoshima, which fit us all and was a nice change from two rooms everywhere. Hotel is a short distance but uphill walk. Luggage pickup can be arranged to deliver to the hotel from the porta area. Great views of the water. Spent evening just exploring the walk along the cliffs to Bennese on a quiet paved road watched sunset over the water. Dinner at the attached restaurant their accommodation for us was a vegetarian paella which was outstanding after a very long hot day of hills. Naoshima museums this was the highlight of our trip - IYKYK! - the ChiChu is truly worth the trek! Note even though shuttles ply between museums, for the sake of time, you might end up walking the ten minutes between the locations and the walks are all HILLY! An incredible day making lifetime memories! We decided to leave in the evening on the 5pm ferry to Takamatsu (1 hour ride) and the 8:30 pm flight out on Jetstar to Narita. Everything went like clockwork the cab ride from Takamatsu port to the airport is a good 45 minutes so factor in travel times for sure! Narita to Shinjuku the limo bus, tickets easily available soon as you walk out into the arrivals area. 120 mins into the city. A very long and physically taxing day but like I said lifetime of memories! Tokyo 2 nights JR Hotel Blossom Shinjuku serviceable, clean, great location to explore all the nearby neighborhoods including Meiji shrine; we loved Harajuku but loved Ebisu even more! The Kapital stores are all within walking distance and we enjoyed browsing all of them, taking in the neighborhoods, and ended up buy jeans at one. Good shopping experience: dinner at Pazzo Di Pizza and walk into Golden Gai Open book bar was fun got to try unfiltered sake for the first time! Highly recommend the Tokyo Metropolitan Building viewing decks was not a long wait views even on a cloudy day were fantastic! Next 2 nights Hotel Remm+ Ginza 3 three-star hotel, our least favorite of our trip, small dark rooms, and stained walls; overall clean sheets and great location near Shimbashi station recommend exploring other stays all within minutes of this hotel. Exploring Ginza high recommend to finish out a Japan visit with stay in Ginza by then you have your Japan walking legs and the overwhelm is not so bad! Evening - Bar High Five for the experience was alright, we enjoyed the smaller, less known but equally good establishments more; some of us wanted to try Oden so we went to Oden Oreno Dashi Ginza cute place if youre ok with fish, then the Oden stock was delicious! Next day went to visit Yanaka Ginza and the Asakura museum of sculpture totally worth the trip! And the small curry place right across from the museum was one of the best meals we had in Japan! The vegetarian curry was incredibly satisfying and powered us for the rest of our day! We then explored Okachimachi area for the gemstone stores thanks to all the folks who posted about this area having gem stores and supplies! Dinner (lined up) at Kyushu Ginza Jangara the veg soy broth was tasty but oily not sure if it was worth the hype; notable mention Annam Indian right across Remm+ hotel best Daal and fresh rotis is the real deal!! Their lunch set for 1000Y was the best thing before leaving for Haneda on the long 30-hour-day journey back home. The one thing we did not get to do that we regret is a visit to the Tokyo Metropolitan Area Outer Underground Discharge Channel - it seems to be an engineering marvel and we would have loved to tour it - note! Same day tickets are not allowed - https://gaikaku.jp/ Please post any questions and I am happy to clarify or provide additional info."}
{"id": "0072", "text": "My family and I just returned from a 12 day vacation to Japan. The following is a summary of our trip including recommendations and some advice for future travelers: Day 0: Flew ZipAir from LAX to NRT. Experience is bare bones but airplane was clean, comfortable, and on time. At NRT, I pulled out 40,000 from an ATM, bought two Welcome Suica cards from the self-service machine at the JR station and loaded 5,000 on each (Note: children under 6 can ride pretty much all public transportation for free, so my daughter did not need a card). We then took the Keisei Skyliner into Tokyo. I bought the Keisei tickets online in advance to take advance of the discounted price, and the face recognition at the airport station which means not having to wait in line to get tickets. Note that children under 6 can also ride long-distance trains including the Shinkansen trains for free, but only in unreserved cars. Some trains are reserved cars only including the Keisei, and unless you want your kid in your lap, for reserved seat-only trains, get them their own seat (which is generally half the price of an adult ticket). We got off the train at Nippori station and rode the Nippori-Toneri Liner to Nishi-Nippori where we walked to our hotel: Fav Hotel Nishi Nippori. This is a pretty random area of Tokyo but it has plenty of stores nearby for essentials and sits at the crossroads of numerous train connections including the Yamanote and Chiyoda Line of the Tokyo Subway. I personally like staying in random neighborhoods that are well connected to other parts of the city where you are planning to go. This hotel was simple, room was compact but well appointed, clean, and modern, and the room featured a sort of mezzanine/bunk-bed which was perfect for the kid. After unpacking, we took the Yamanote to Ikebukuro and had dinner at Konana Lumine (Japanese-style pasta). Day 1: This was the only bad-weather day of the trip. It was raining solid throughout the day but we opted to still go to Asakusa to see Senso-ji Temple and despite the umbrellas, crowds were thinner than normal and it was enjoyable. We grabbed some matcha teas at nearby Hatoya (excellent) and then had French-Japanese fusion buckwheat pancakes and cider at Fleur de Sarrasin (delicious). We took taxis (generally using the apps but sometimes by just hailing) whenever we didn't feel like taking the train, if it was going to require lots of connections, if the kid fell asleep (we did not bring a stroller), or if the weather was bad, and I highly recommend this, as they are cheap for short rides (do not take them from one city to another or to NRT or some ridiculous distance as the price will then be equally ridiculous). We then headed back to the hotel to recharge. My wife went for a wood bath (one of three spa-type experiences) and we then all met at the Tokyo Dome to see Cubs vs. Yomiuri Giants as part of the Tokyo MLB series exhibition games. I highly recommend going to a baseball game if teams are playing during your trip. Day 2: To take advantage of the jet lag and seeing as I wanted to get to DisneySea early to get in line, I decided to first head to Daiwa Sushi for a 6 AM sushi breakfast (excellent). I got to DisneySea around 7:30 AM and there were already pretty long lines. My wife and kid took a taxi to meet me in line around 8:30 (this taxi ride was semi-expensive but worth them having a one seat ride and sleeping in a little more). We got into the park and were able to pretty much ride anything we wanted to except Anna and Elsa. I think this is the only ride that really requires you to get there very very early if you want to ride it. I realize you won't need a pass to ride it starting next month but I imagine the standby line will have several hours-long wait times. We rented a stroller in the park which was well worth it as there is a lot of walking, standing, which is a lot for a 4 year old, especially after such a long journey a couple days before. Day 3: We did TeamLabs Borderless in the morning, and had lunch at a spot in the sprawling Azabudai Hills complex which has many restaurant options. We then went over to nearby Roppongi to soak in the views from the Mori Tower observation deck (highly recommend it, and not crowded at all). We then went downstairs to explore Mohri Garden (small but very pretty) and nearby Sakurazaka Park (robot-themed). For little ones, it is especially beneficial to incorporate lots of park/playground time for them to stretch their legs, play, and interact with local kids or other travelers. My wife then went to get a head/scalp massage, and we all met up later in Ginza. We checked out the Sony Park Ginza space which is free but requires reservations. It was interesting but also a little weird. For dinner, we went to Shari in Ginza which was a great spot for a variety of Japanese food including some rolls and other fusion-y stuff. Day 4: Took the Shinkansen to Kyoto. I booked unreserved seats (x2) in advance using the SmartEX app, and linked them to the Suica cards so we could just tap them at the fare gates. You do not need to reserve seats on these trains outside of some unique peak periods; this will save you some money. Buying the tickets in advance saves you having to wait in line at the stations and there are discounts (Hayatoku-21). You can then get on any train of the class you reserved for (I recommend Nozomi as these are the fastest and they basically run every 10 minutes). If you can't get seats together, just wait for the next one, it's that simple. Nozomis generally have two unreserved seat cars at the front of the train. Because we'd be walking a lot the next few days, we rented a stroller from MK Travel opposite Kyoto Station. We stayed at the Hyatt Place Kyoto (excellent and great point redemption value for WOH members), which is connected to Kyoto Station via the Karasuma Line subway. We checked in, dropped our bags off, and took a taxi to Kiyomizu-dera Temple. After exploring it, we walked down Ninenzaka and Sannenzaka streets and stopped at quieter Kodai-ji temple which has its own small bamboo forest. We then took a taxi back toward central Kyoto and saw the theater show Gear (highly recommend it and you need to buy tickets in advance). Day 5: We did a day trip to Nara and Uji via trains which you can use your Suica cards to board. In Nara, we walked through the Nara Deer Park, visited Todai-ji Temple, and had lunch at Big Mountain Cafe and Farm (tasty). We then caught a train to Uji and walked down the small streets, sampling matcha tea and desserts. We then headed back to Kyoto where we had dinner at Futagoya in Pontocho alley. Day 6: We forwarded our larger bags to the Hyatt in Kanazawa via the Hyatt in Kyoto. I highly recommend using bag forwarding to lighten your load whenever it makes sense (as you are thinning down your supplies, and when you have transit days where you don't want to haul all your bags, even if they are carry-on sized like ours were. We then took a day trip to Osaka where we started off with a visit to Kids Plaza Osaka (highly recommended, great for younger children). We had lunch in the nearby park where there were several food festivals happening at the same time, and then took the subway to the Aquarium (excellent and so cheap compared to those in the US). We then made a quick stop in Dotonbori for some photos and then took the subway back up to Umeda and had dinner at a restaurant inside the Grand Front mall (sprawling with many dining options, especially north tower, 6F). Day 7: After a little park time at Umekoji Park (which is charming), we caught the Shinkansen train (with one transfer) to Kanazawa. I got a massage inside the Raffine store inside the station, and we then went to dinner at Coil which is an interesting minimalist restaurant where you can make your own maki rolls. We stayed two nights in Kanzawa at the Hyatt Centric. Day 8: We explored Kanazawa and started with the famous Kenroku-en garden which is beautiful. We had lunch at the nearby charming Coffee Stand Hana and then walked over to Sofuan for a private tea ceremony, which was interesting and fun, even for the kid. After some more park/playground time, we headed back to the hotel and later on had dinner at Handmade Udon Kineya M'ZA. Day 9: We again forwarded some of our luggage (what we no longer needed), this time straight to HND via our hotel. We took a taxi to the Nagamachi District to visit the Samurai Residence which is beautiful and interesting, including the small but spectacular inner garden, and then had gold leaf ice cream across the street (one of the things Kanazawa is known for). The gold leaf didn't really taste like anything but it was fun nonetheless. We then headed back to the station to catch the Shinkansen to Nagano. Kanazawa was probably my favorite city, just because of its overall vibe (more relaxed than Tokyo or Kyoto but still packed with fun and interesting sights, foods, etc.). After arriving at Nagano Station, we boarded the Snow Monkey express bus which would take us to the Snow Monkey Park entrance, steps away from our lodging. We stayed at the marvelous Hotarutei Villas for one night. I can't recommend this place enough. It is a splurge but the food, hospitality, and the villas themselves with their private onsens are well worth it. The stay included a fantastic Kaiseki dinner and breakfast. Day 10: From the villa, we walked to the Snow Monkey park which is about a 40 minute hike. The trail is very muddy, at least this time of year, so good footwear is recommended. The monkeys are great fun to watch and I highly recommend the visit. We then hiked back, took the bus back to Nagano, and boarded a Shinkansen back to Tokyo. We walked over to Hotel Super Premier where we'd be staying for our final night. The rooms are nice and clean but very small, but our room did have a bunk bed for the kid. After a short rest, we visited the NTV Big Clock, TeamLabs Planets, and Shibuya where we had a decent dinner at La Soffitta, an Italian restaurant tucked in a small alleyway. Day 11: We forwarded the last of our luggage (except our day packs) to HND via Airporter and headed over to Kichijoji to visit the Ghibli Museum (highly recommended, even if you are not a super fan, it is very well done and great to explore, especially for kids; don't miss the giant cat bus they can climb and play on). We walked through Inokashira Park which is beautiful and had many cherry blossom trees that were just blooming. We had crepes at Cafe du Lievre along the way. We then took the Limousine Bus straight from Kichijoji to HND where we caught our flight back on United. Some final notes: we initially didn't use a lot of cash but once we left Tokyo, that changed. We spent just about all the cash I pulled out, but didn't need to pull out more. We used some of the cash to top up our Suica cards, as these did get depleted a couple times. Still, the vast majority of transactions can be made by credit card. We did laundry about halfway through at the Hyatt in Kanazawa. Laundry facilities are often in hotels and are just plentiful and easy to use in general, so it makes sense not to overpack and do laundry at least once. There are clean restrooms everywhere, which makes traveling with a young kid that much easier. People are incredibly warm and welcoming, and courteous (they would offer seats on the subway once seeing that we had a young child). The various customs and social norms are not really that difficult; they are just better at being polite and conscious about not annoying others with cell phone ringing, loud talking, eating next to others, etc. This was my second visit and my wife and daughter's first visit, and all of us can't wait to go back. It's an amazing country."}
{"id": "0073", "text": "During this trip in novembre 2024 to Japan, we aimed to explore places less frequented than during our previous visit in the summer of 2023. That first trip allowed us to discover major highlights such as Tokyo, Kyoto (and Nara), Osaka (and Himeji), as well as the islands of Naoshima and Teshima. These islands remain among the most beautiful places weve ever visited, and we highly recommend them. However, Hiroshima and Miyajima were out of reach during that trip due to the distance. This time, our goals were twofold: to discover Hiroshima and its surroundings and to explore the natural beauty and culture of the Japanese Alps. We incorporated many tips from Reddit and other platforms when organizing this trip. Additionally, we wanted to optimize travel to avoid spending too much time on transportation. The 7-day JR Pass turned out to be exceptionally cost-effective for us, given the numerous train journeys (Tokyo Hiroshima Takayama Kanazawa). While in Tokyo, we had friends living there, which influenced our activities: strolling around, shopping, and meeting up with them for dinners and evenings out. Lastly, to simplify our travel between destinations, we made use of luggage forwarding services. This allowed us to travel light between Takayama and Kanazawa by sending our main suitcases directly to Tokyo. We highly recommend this setup for multi-city trips in Japan. As for the bars and restaurant, check carrefuly in reservation are needed if you want to avoid queue or refusal of entry. Day 1: Thursday, November 7 Arrival in Tokyo Morning: - Picked up the JR Pass at Haneda Airport. - Dropped off our luggage at The Blossom Hibiya, a high-end hotel with spacious rooms, excellent service, and fantastic value when booked in advance. - Walked through Shinjuku Gyoen, a tranquil park filled with painters and school groups. Lunch: - Sakae Sushi, a good-quality omakase in the Ueno area at a reasonable price for lunch. This was also our first chance to reunite with friends. Afternoon: - Checked into the hotel and took time to rest. Evening: - Dinner: A casual ramen spot in our neighborhood. Day 2: Friday, November 8 / Tokyo Ebisu, Daikanyama, and Nakameguro Morning and Afternoon: - Lunch: Pizza Marumo, considered one of the best pizzas in the world, located in Ebisu. Reservations are recommended, but we managed to secure an outdoor table by arriving at noon. - Explored the trendy neighborhoods of Daikanyama and Nakameguro, visiting boutique shops and strolling through a park atop Daikanyama. - Stopped by Flugen in Harajuku, a coffee shop that transforms into a cocktail bar in the evening. Evening: - Dinner: Futago, a yakiniku restaurant in Shibuya offering delicious food and welcoming staff despite the lack of an English menu. - Bars: Record Bar and Music Bar Lion, two intimate venues in Shibuya perfect for drinks and music. Day 3: Saturday, November 9 / Tokyo Harajuku and Electro Night Morning and Afternoon: - Strolled through Harajuku, shopping in vintage stores and discovering local fashion. Evening: - Cocktail bar memento mori that focus on cacao. Delicious. - Dinner: Teppanyaki Sakura in Shinjuku, a high-end restaurant with an All-You-Can-Drink option. Its slightly pricey but worth it for the exceptional quality. - Night Out: Enter Shibuya, a small electro club located in a building. Entry costs 2,000 yen, and the atmosphere is relaxed and welcoming. - Late Night Breakfast: Ramen at Ichiran, open 24/7, with no lines at 6 a.m. Day 4: Sunday, November 10 / Tokyo Rest Day - Day: Rested in the hotel after the late night. - Evening: Dinner: Gyozas in a small, cozy restaurant in our area. Day 5: Monday, November 11 / Tokyo Hiroshima Miyajima - Morning: Took the Shinkansen to Hiroshima, arriving around noon. From there, we transferred to Miyajima via train and ferry (approx 1 hour). - Afternoon: Took the cable car to the summit. Note: The last cable car leaves at 4:30 p.m., and queues can get long. We didnt spend much time at the top, but it was worth it. Explored Miyajimas center, discovering local specialties. Shops tend to close after sunset (around 5 p.m.), but a few remained open. - Evening: Returned to Hiroshima and had dinner in the Okonomimura Building, which specializes in okonomiyaki. Day 6: Tuesday, November 12 / Hiroshima Takayama Morning: - Visited the Peace Park, the Eternal Flame, and the Hiroshima Museum, followed by a short walk around the city. - Took a train to Takayama via Nagoya. Tip: Night falls at 4:30 p.m., limiting views of the landscape during late journeys. Evening: - Dinner: Ramen at . - Drinks: A cocktail at Bar Yu, featuring local ingredients. Day 7: Wednesday, November 13 / Takayama Morning: - Visited Hida no Sato, an open-air museum showcasing traditional Japanese houses surrounded by stunning autumn foliage. Afternoon: - Lunch: Daikokuya, a soba restaurant run by an elderly woman in her home, tucked away from the touristy areas. The homemade soba was unforgettable. - Walked the Higashiyama Temple Trail, a serene path through beautiful temples and shrines, far from the old towns crowds. - Sampled sake from local breweries, an essential experience in Takayama. Evening: - Dinner: Sengokuya, featuring premium Hida beef yakiniku. The marbling and flavor were exceptional. Day 8: Thursday, November 14 / Takayama Gorges of Kurobe Kanazawa Introduction: We had initially planned to visit Shirakawa-go, but buses must be reserved over a month in advance, and there are unreserved buses heading from takayama and back but no unreserved buses heading to Kanazawa. Many spots are blocked by travel agencies. Itinerary: - Took a breathtaking scenic train ride from Takayama to Toyama. - Explored the Kurobe Gorge, accessible by a charming train (must be reserved in advance). - Stopped at Unazuki Onsen, leaving luggage in lockers. Evening: Arrived in Kanazawa and had dinner at a local ramen spot. Day 9: Friday, November 15 / Kanazawa Morning and Afternoon: - Visited Kenroku-en Garden, renowned as one of Japans most beautiful gardens. - Strolled through the samurai district and the geisha district, stopping by local boutiques - Lunch: Fresh sushi at Omicho Market, a lively spot with plenty of local delicacies. Evening: - Dinner: Izakaya Canteen, a welcoming spot with delicious local dishes. - Bar: Legato, a cozy bar with a relaxed atmosphere for a quiet drink. Day 10: Saturday, November 16 / Kanazawa Tokyo Morning: - Visited the 21st Century Museum of Contemporary Art, known for its famous swimming pool installation. Reservation for the pool must be made the same day starting at 9 a.m., even though the museum itself doesnt open until 10 a.m. Afternoon: - Took the Shinkansen back to Tokyo. Evening: - Dinner: Izakaya Kappore in Shibuya, a refined dining experience with a great ambiance. - Night Out: Returned to Enter Shibuya to see a Japanese DJ we admire. This intimate electro club charges 2,000 yen for entry and offers a laid-back, welcoming atmosphere. Day 11: Sunday, November 17 / Tokyo - Roppongi and Ueno Morning and Lunch: - Lunch at Kei Restaurant in the Ritz-Carlton, which recently earned its first Michelin star in Japan. We had previously dined at Keis three-star restaurant in Paris and were thrilled to experience the same exceptional quality here. Afternoon: - Explored 21_21 Design Sight Gallery and the National Art Center Tokyo in Roppongi. Evening: - Dinner: Standing Sushi Magurobito in Ueno. - Strolled through Ueno Park, illuminated at night, especially around the temples, creating a magical ambiance. Day 12: Monday, November 18 / Tokyo - Shopping and Ginza Morning and Afternoon: - Went shopping at Ikebukuro, including a visit to the Pokmon Center. - Stopped by Nakano Broadway to browse vintage watches and Pokmon cards. - Shopped at Ginza, with highlights like Ginza Six and the Tsutaya Bookstore, which features books, accessories, and clothing. Evening: - Dinner: Ginza cobau, a high-end yakiniku restaurant with exceptional quality. - Bar: Bar Record in Ginza, a charming and intimate space with a DJ spinning vinyl and expertly crafted cocktails. Day 13: Tuesday, November 19 / Tokyo Haneda Morning and Afternoon: - Lunch: Ate at Shodai in Ebisu, known for its exceptional udon with curry and cream. Highly recommended! - Took a peaceful stroll through Harisugawa Park, located near the French Embassy. This quiet and lesser-known park is perfect for a relaxing walk. - Did last-minute shopping at Ginza and Akihabara, stopping by BicCamera for duty-free electronics purchases. Evening and Departure: - We had arranged for our luggage to be sent to Haneda Airport through a dedicated luggage service. Bags were registered by 11 p.m. the night before and dropped off at 9 a.m. for same-day delivery to the airport. This service made our last day light and easy. - Before boarding our late-night flight from Haneda, we relaxed at the airport lounge, taking a refreshing shower to prepare for the long journey home."}
{"id": "0074", "text": "Hi everyone! I personally had looked at a ton of trip reports before my first trip to Japan, so hopefully mine can also help someone else out. If anything sounds robotic, please note that I did format this with ChatGPT so that my writing was more fluid and less of a fever dream due to my jet-lag. Our 18-day trip was from October 8th through October 26th with 2 people . We did meet up with a friend who lives in Tokyo, so some items were booked for 3 people. Budget wise, we kept most of our hotels between $65-$125 per night. We did splurge on 1 hotel in Takayama for $250 a night. Itinerary: 5 days Tokyo (including arrival day), 1 day Matsumoto, 2 days Takayama, 2 days Kanazawa, 4 days Kyoto, 4 days Tokyo (including departure day). Our original plan was to do more day trips out of Tokyo (Nikko and Kamakura), but due to poor weather conditions, they had to be cancelled. Otherwise, I would have taken more days away from Tokyo and used them to go to Hiroshima and Miyajima. **General Tips/Thoughts** * **Invest in Great Walking Shoes:** We averaged about 13 miles (21 km) of walking per day. I did extensive research on walking shoes and ended up choosing the **Asics Gel-Nimbus 26**. They were an absolute godsend. We also brought another pair of tennis shoes but only used them once or twice. * **Avoid Unethical Animal Attractions:** Please keep in mind that many animal cafes and attractions are not ethical and mistreat animals. If you plan on doing any animal-related activities, research ahead of time or consider other ways to spend your money. * **eSIM vs. International Plans:** I used a **30-day, 10GB Ubigi eSIM** that I set up in advance, and it worked perfectly throughout the entire trip. My partner opted for an international travel plan through his phone company, but it didn't work as well as the eSIM. * **Suica and Pasmo Cards:** Upon arrival at Haneda Airport, we wanted a physical, rechargeable transportation card. Walking towards the kiosks to get train tickets, you'll see an information desk, where you can purchase your Pasma card (cash only, so pull the money out from a nearby ATM). Pasmo and Suica are essentially identical and can be used the same way. We loaded 10,000 yen onto each of our cards, which lasted almost the entire trip. You can also use your Pasmo/IC card to pay for food at convenience stores and a lot of vending machines. * Many places were cash-only, so make sure to have enough yen on hand. ATMs are widely available, but it's wise to double-check your cash before dining or visiting attractions with admission fees. * **Google Maps** was incredibly helpful for trains and buses. We didn't have issues navigating with it at all. * **Tattoo Policies:** Our hotels did not allow people with tattoos to use their public baths. If you have tattoos, consider purchasing tattoo covers or booking tattoo-friendly hotels and onsens. We bought tattoo covers at Don Quijote while in Japan but wished we bought better quality ones before we arrived. * **When purchasing tickets or making reservations from a different time zone, double-check that the dates and times align with your intended schedule in Japan.** We encountered an issue where, despite careful checks while in the U.S., our mobile tickets showed a date one day earlier once we were in Japan due to some websites not properly adjusting for time zone differences. * **Pack light and do laundry on site:** Every single hotel we booked had coin laundry on the premises. I had packed light for an 18-day trip and still wished I had only packed about half since we had access to self-service coin laundry every single day. Not having the additional clothing in our backpacks would have spared us so much more room for additional souvenirs. * **Booking flexibility:** Consider not booking all your hotels in advance unless necessary. You need to pre-book your first hotel for immigration purposes, but we noticed that hotel prices dropped significantly while we were in Japan. We could have saved a lot of money by booking hotels as we went. However, for remote areas with limited accommodation during tourist-influx seasons, you should book months ahead. Also, book bus tickets to and from rural towns that see lots of tourists a week in advance. If you're sticking to main cities, leaving some hotel bookings flexible can save you money and give you leeway with travel. **Day 1: Arrival in Tokyo (Akasaka)** We arrived at **Haneda Airport** at 6:20 PM. After retrieving our luggage, we headed to the transportation kiosks near the metro to get our **Pasmo cards**. We navigated the metro to get to our hotel, **Via Inn Prime Akasaka**. I was worried navigating transportation would be difficult, but we found it extremely easy. **Day 2: Odaiba, Ginza, and Akihabara** We had a reservation at **TeamLab Planets** in Odaiba at 9:30 AM, so we enjoyed breakfast at the hotel and took a train, then a bus to the museum. We had a great time; while somewhat crowded, there weren't too many people on a Thursday morning. **Tip:** Wear pants that you can roll above your knees! Since my body woke up at 2 AM due to jet lag, I had checked online to see if we could grab a reservation for the **Pokmon Caf**. We'd had no luck for a full month, but a slot opened up, and I was able to grab one for 1:30 PM that day! If you can't get reservations ahead of time, look late at night or early in the morning once you're in Japan to see if someone canceled last-minute. With time before our Pokmon Caf reservation, we decided to walk from TeamLab to the caf (about an hour's walk). Along the way, we crossed the **Kachidoki Bridge** to the **Tsukiji Hongwan-ji Temple** in Ginza. We found a coffee shop called **Bongen Coffee** that had a small line. The wait ended up being about 45 minutes since the shop is small and offers a lot of coffee customization, making each order take longer. The coffee was delicious, but we probably wouldn't have waited if we didn't have excess free time. Once we got our coffee, we walked to a local park to sit and enjoy it. From there, we made our way to the **Pokmon Caf**. The caf was adorable, and the food was decorated amazingly! Although the food was okay and very pricey, the ambiance made it well worth our while. We spent some time in the gift shop area afterward. I have a couple of small tattoos, so I needed to buy tattoo covers to use the hotel's public bath and other onsens we had planned. We walked through the streets of **Akihabara**, exploring the eclectic anime shops, and made our way to **Don Quijote Akihabara**. I can't get the stupid store jingle out of my head. Don Quijote ended up being the ONLY place I could find tattoo covers. However, these covers are extremely thin, and you need multiple layers to cover a tattoo completely. They're also very sticky and hard to remove. Next time, I'll buy thicker, reusable tattoo covers before going to Japan. You can also use surgical/medical tape, but I wanted something more inconspicuous. As the sun was setting, we decided to walk back to our hotel, even though it was about an hour and 20-minute walk. We strolled by **Kanda Myojin Shrine** at sunset, which was absolutely beautiful and completely empty of tourists by the time we arrived. We then stopped at **Hanzomon Gate** near the Imperial Palace, enjoying the view of the water and city lights at night. **Day 3: Ueno, Asakusa, and the Imperial Palace** One of our friends lives in Ueno, so we met up with him at a caf called **Coffee House Katsura**. We enjoyed a cheap breakfast set of coffee, thick toast with honey, boiled eggs, and salad to start the day. After parting ways, we walked toward **Ueno Park** and discovered a school food festival we weren't aware of. We sampled various vendor snacks before exploring the huge park and visiting the **Tokyo National Museum**. From there, we walked down **Ameyoko Shopping Street**. Feeling hungry for ramen, we found a place called **Karashibi Miso Ramen Kinkanbo Kanda Honten**. It was back in the direction we had come from, but it looked so good we hopped on a bus to get there before the dinner rush. We arrived with a handful of people in line before us and waited about 20 minutes. It was so worth the waitan amazing and filling bowl of ramen. To walk off the food, we decided to stroll back to our hotel, exploring different areas of the city. **Day 4: Shibuya, Harajuku, and Shinjuku** We followed a suggested itinerary provided by u/Sipikay **(**found **here**), which ended up being perfect for us. The only difference was that we did this on a Saturday, so the **Tokyo Metropolitan Government Building** observatory was closed. Instead, we decided to be among the first people at the gate for the **Shinjuku Gyoen National Garden**. Despite generally avoiding chain restaurants, we wanted to see if there was a difference in taste and quality at **Starbucks** in Japan versus the U.S. As soon as the gates opened, we went straight to Starbucks to grab a window seat overlooking the pond and garden area. **Tip:** If you want a beautiful view while sipping coffee, arrive before the gates open to get a good seat. While strolling through **Harajuku**, we found a restaurant called **Roast Beef Ohno Harajuku Branch**, which ended up being an amazing meal with Wagyu and roast beef. We got there at 11 AM and waited around 15 minutes, but there was a giant line by the time we finished. Additionally, there was a music and food festival called **Hero Gate** happening. We stumbled upon it while walking to the **Shibuya Scramble Crossing** after visiting **Meiji Jingu Shrine**. **Day 5: Day Trip to Kawaguchiko** We booked tickets five days in advance for a bus from **Shinjuku Bus Terminal** to **Kawaguchiko Station**, based on the day with the best weather. For three people, there were already limited seating options, so I'd recommend booking even further in advance. We used SeeMtFuji.com to check visibility forecasts. Due to holiday weekend traffic, the bus took about twice as long as expected both to and from Kawaguchiko. If you're taking the bus during holidays, be aware that this can set you back multiple hours. We first made our way to the **Chureito Pagoda** and were able to get a fantastic view of **Mt. Fuji**. The climb up to the pagoda is steep but absolutely worth it. From there, we returned to the train station and decided to check out **Fuji-Q Highland** amusement park since it was such a nice day. We didn't go on any rides due to long wait times because of the holiday weekend but had a blast wandering around the park, sightseeing, and finding food. We grabbed matcha ice cream from a small shop near one of the train stops before our train arrived. Back in Kawaguchiko, we considered the panoramic ropeway but didn't have enough time before our bus left. Instead, we enjoyed a beautiful trail around **Lake Kawaguchiko**. We wanted to try the local **hoto noodles**, so we went to **Hotou Fudo Kawaguchiko Station**. Surprisingly, despite being right across from the station, the restaurant was filled with locals. We enjoyed our giant noodle bowls while sitting on tatami mats and drinking beera super memorable meal. **Day 6: Matsumoto** We woke up early to get to **Shinjuku Bus Terminal** for our highway bus to **Matsumoto**. The ride was quick, taking about two hours. Upon arrival, we walked six minutes to our hotel, dropped off our stuff, and wandered around the town. We strolled along **Nawate Shopping Street**, looking at ceramics and frog-themed souvenirs. We then visited **Matsumoto Castle** and took the inside tour. There was a food festival happening right outside the castle, so we spent some time sampling local snacks. Feeling hungry for a proper meal, we found **Kitchen Nankai ()**. This place was run by a super sweet and welcoming elderly couple whom you can watch making the food. The katsu curry was excellent, so we highly recommend this place if you can't reserve a spot to try the local soba noodles (or horse meat, if that's your thing). While we didn't do it, I wish we had visited the **Daio Wasabi Farm**, as that would have been a unique experience. **Day 7: Takayama** We booked another highway bus from **Matsumoto** to **Takayama**. Keep in mind that during peak tourist months, you **must** book your bus or train tickets in advance to ensure availability. After dropping off our stuff at our hotel, **Takayama Ouan**, our first stop was a restaurant to try local **Hida beef**. We went to **Hidagyu Maruaki**, where we tried some of the highest-quality Wagyu I've had. The wait was around an hour at 1:30/2:00 PM, so be prepared for wait times at popular Hida beef spots. After lunch, we randomly hopped on a bus to the local **Hida Folk Village**. We bought an inclusive ticket for 800 yen at the bus station, which included bus transport to and from the village and the village admission fee. The bus ride was only about 10 minutes, and the village is about a 30-40 minute walk from our hotel if you prefer to walk. The open-air museum was beautiful, and the autumn leaves were already turning colors, making it even more breathtaking. Some people say to only do Hida Folk Village or Shirakawa-go, but I found both were worthwhile. **Day 8: Takayama** In the morning, we started our walk to the **Miyagawa Morning Market** and decided to first stop by a local coffee shop called **Coffee Don**. They had a huge selection of flavored and classic coffee types, as well as baked pies. From there, we perused the morning market and walked by the river. We decided to complete the **Higashiyama Walking Course**, which we wandered off intentionally at times, leading to some beautiful shrines and giving us a great layout of the town. We stopped and did sake tasting at the **Funasaka Sake Brewery**, where you get a ceramic sake cup to take home for 100 yen, and tastings are about 100-200 yen each. It was super fun to gather the coins used for the tasting machines and try different varieties. Another activity we didn't get to do but found interesting was the **Squirrel Forest Hidayama Wild Grass Nature Garden**, an animal sanctuary where you can hand-feed squirrels and chipmunks. (I tried to look up ethics on this place, but I found almost no information online). **Day 9: Shirakawa-go and Kanazawa** Since we only booked our bus tickets about three days in advance, there were no buses going straight from Takayama to Kanazawa. While there were train options, we wanted to save money and stick to our budget using buses. So, we ended up getting a bus from Takayama to **Shirakawa-go**, then booked another separate bus from Shirakawa-go to Kanazawa. We booked the first bus available from Takayama to Shirakawa-go to ensure we could get one of the very few large luggage lockers at the bus terminal. There's an overflow area where they can hold bags and luggage if there are no more lockers, but it's more expensive, and there can be a long line. Our bus arrived at 8:00 AM, and after storing our bags, we went straight to the **observation area** to get a beautiful view of the mist evaporating from the mountains. We enjoyed some pastries and coffee we'd packed while watching the mist roll over the mountains. It was an absolutely amazing view. We spent about two more hours slowly wandering around Shirakawa-go village. By 9:30-11:30 AM, Shirakawa-go was packed with tourist buses, so **go early**. We then hopped on our bus to **Kanazawa**. Our hotel was a 20-minute walk from the station and right next to **Omicho Market**. There are city buses that accept Pasmo cards, but walking was just as convenient for us. We walked through the market and then decided to wander around Kanazawa without looking at maps, not knowing where we were going. We found ourselves at **Oyama Shrine** and its beautiful gardens, and immediately after, we were in the beautifully landscaped **Kanazawa Castle Park**. The department store, **KANAZAWA M'ZA**, near Omicho Market was holding a special **Death Note** exhibition, but we did not get to go to that. If stuff like this interests you, look up anime or video game exhibitions in the cities you're visiting! **Day 10: Kanazawa** Since we only saw small parts of the parks the day before, we started our morning checking out **Kanazawa Castle Ruins** and the rest of **Kanazawa Castle Park**, then visited **Kenroku-en**, another beautiful park area located right next to the castle park. On our way to the **Nagamachi (Samurai) District**, we came across a small bakery called **Pan Brothers**. **I LOVED THIS PLACE! If you cannot tell, bread is my favorite meal.** They had freshly baked goods, curry breads, katsu sandwiches, deli sandwiches, and more. It was cheap and super deliciousI wish I'd bought more. We spent some time visiting the Samurai district and then slowly made our way to the **Higashi Chaya District**, where we shopped for ceramics and did sake tasting at a local brewery. From the Higashi Chaya district, we decided to get away from the crowd and do a 30-minute walk to a beautiful scenic overlook called **Miharashidai**. It was a bit of a hike, but it was completely worth it for the overlook of Kanazawa at sunset. There were only four other local people at the park, so it was a very quiet and serene moment we got to appreciate. We made our way back to the district, where we treated ourselves to some huge and delicious fruit-stuffed crepes at **** for dessert. **Day 11: Kyoto** We left Kanazawa super early to get to **Kyoto**. It was pouring rain that day, and unfortunately, our hotel was a 15-20 minute walk from the station, so we didn't have great access to buses. This was the one hotel someone recommended to us, but I personally wish I had done more research myself and chosen something different due to location. We grabbed umbrellas and needed to duck into **KAEru Coffee** to escape the downpour. We loved what we gotdelicious affogato and freshly made banana bread and carrot cake. We had time to walk through **Nishiki Market**, but as it was raining, there were an uncomfortable number of people hiding from the rain as well. From there, we decided to go to the **Kyoto Cultural Museum**. Honestly, it was extremely hot, humid, and rainy, so we weren't enjoying walking around much and made our way back to our hotel. After a small break, we discovered a small Korean restaurant near us called **Takei**, which is owned by a super sweet Korean lady who makes the food right in front of you. We had amazing fried tofu, pork bowls, and jjajangmyeon (black bean noodles). The tiny restaurant is covered with artwork from people who have eaten there, and she leaves out paper and pencils if you'd like to draw something for her to put on her walls! Super great meal and would recommend this hidden gem. There is the **International Manga Museum** and the **Nintendo Museum** in Kyoto that we wanted to do, but didn't get a chance. The Nintendo Museum requires you to buy tickets in advance, but we were not lucky enough to reserve a spot. **Day 12: West Kyoto and Arashiyama Bamboo Forest** We booked an express train the night before to get to the bamboo forest and found most of the earlier times booked, so we arrived at about 8:30 AM. During peak seasons, I suggest arriving at 6:00 AM because it was already extremely crowded when we arrived. The actual bamboo forest area that's best for photos is relatively small, so it got backed up with foot traffic quickly, with many people stopping to take photos. **Please don't be like these people and block the flow of traffic. It seems every-other person was an Instagram Influencer who brought large camera set ups and lights.** The rest of the forest and town area was still really nice, so we walked around to the overlooks nearby and spotted the **Daihaikaku Senkoji Temple** located in the mountain across the river from the forest. Determined to visit the temple we saw, we walked across the bridge and along the river to reach the walkway up to the temple. Note that this temple is very small and has an admission fee of 400 yen. It was a bit of a hike, but we enjoyed the view and the nature around us. Since we passed the **Arashiyama Monkey Park** on the way to the temple, we made our way back and started up the mountain to get to the park. It was another hike, but it was well worth it to see the families of monkeys hanging out in the area! (I had looked up ethics for this one, and the information I found was that these are wild monkeys who stay in this area because of the food provided from tourists. If anyone has information that says otherwise, let me know and I will take this off of my recommendations!) We stopped to get coffee and a breakfast set at **Caf Ranzan** (delicious but tourist prices). We then walked toward **Arashiyama Park**, where we found vendors selling mochi and candied strawberries. There was a small festival/parade happening near **Nonomiya Shrine**, so we continued through the crowded streets to watch the procession. We walked upward past the shrine areas to the small pottery shops in the upper neighborhood areas. It was more steep walking but worth it. There was a small shop selling matcha tea, coffee, and craft beers that we stopped at before heading back into town. We caught a bus to check out the **Kyoto Gyoen National Garden**. We walked around the garden area for a while and then stumbled upon a great Indian restaurant called **Salman and Sohel Halal Kitchen**. We had the thickest and biggest piece of naan bread ever. This place is absolutely worth checking out with its extensive menu and world-class chefs. Despite our tired feet, we walked back toward our hotel near Kyoto Station. We ended our night at an ice cream/parfait store called **Cream Fest**. **Day 13: Nara and Osaka** We saw that it was quicker to get to **Nara** by train, but all seats were booked, so we went to Kyoto Station and headed to Nara by bus at 6:45 AM. The bus took about 45 minutes. The buses are usually not recommended due to traffic, so we left early in the morning to make sure we did not get as held back by morning rush-hour. We walked directly from the station to the **Nara Deer Park**. Although it was only 7:45 AM, vendors were already selling deer crackers for 200 yen a stack. There weren't many people around, so we were immediately flocked by deer aggressively bowing at us for crackers. The harassment was fun until we ran out of crackers and got a few \"soft\" nudges and headbutts from male deer. We expected this behavior being some of the first touriststhey definitely calmed down later in the day. Unfortunately, many of the Nara sights we wanted to see were closed or under construction that day, so we spent time wandering the park area and seeing the more relaxed deer sleeping by the ponds. We paid the admission fee for a few shrines but decided not to do more. Since we'd seen most of what we wanted in Nara and it was still early, we decided to take a train over to **Osaka** and spend half a day there. We visited **Osaka Castle** and a few other notable spots, then strolled through **Dotonbori** and another **Don Quijote** before needing to call it a day and head back to the hotel. **Day 14: Kyoto** We visited the **Fushimi Inari Shrine**, spending about two hours hiking and walking through it all. It was great exercise and felt satisfying to reach the very top. We arrived at 8:00 AM, and it was already extremely busy and crowded. Since it was heavily raining the day before, we started heading toward **Kiyomizu-dera Niomon Gate** to check out the surrounding shops and shrines. We perused the ceramics and souvenir shops, finding some really nice items, and then stumbled upon a slightly hidden **Studio Ghibli** store. Although the store sold Ghibli items you can find elsewhere, it was extremely well-decorated and whimsical. We then stopped by **Kiyomizu-dera Koyasu Pagoda**, **Yasaka Kshin-d Temple**, and **Gesshinin Temple**. We walked through **Maruyama Park** and visited **Yasaka Shrine**. Heading back toward our hotel, we noticed a particular ramen shop near Kyoto Station that always had a huge line, even as early as 6 AM. Our curiosity got the better of us, so we bought meal tickets from the vending machine and stood in line for about 30 minutes. The ramen place was **Honke Daiichi-Asahi** and was honestly one of the best ramen bowls we had during the entire trip. Everyone in the shop was so friendly, and the chefs were blasting anime theme music while they cooked. **Highly recommended!** **Day 15: Back to Tokyo** We had an 11:00 AM train to Tokyo from Kyoto. We arrived in Tokyo around 1:30 PM. It was another hot, humid, and rainy day, so we went to our hotel to drop off our stuff since we couldn't check in yet. There was a small caf nearby called **Tokyo Little House** where we hung out until check-in. We had plans to meet our friend and his girlfriend around 6:30 PM in **Shinjuku**, so we lazed around and walked around the neighborhood before heading out. We met them at an izakaya called **Azuma**. The place was quite interesting and eclectic, and we had a great evening ordering small plates and beers before heading to a karaoke place to end the night. **Day 16: Tokyo Tower and Ramen Festival** Despite being sleep-deprived from the night before, we started our day by stopping at **New Zealand Caf Akasaka** to make plans. We booked a last-minute reservation to visit **Tokyo Tower**. After the tower, we walked through the park next to it and saw that there was a **Kaiju No. 8** special pop-up exhibition happening near the **Tokyo Dome**. We had a great time looking at special artwork for the anime. Since there was a **Ramen Festival** (Tokyo Ramen Show) ongoing until November 4th, we decided to check it out. We took a bus to **Komazawa Olympic Park**, where we started off with two ramen tickets and tried some great ramen from places we wouldn't have experienced otherwise! They gave pretty good portion sizes per bowl for 1,100 yen, so we ended up not buying more tickets but wished we could have. The park has little convenience stores, and the festival was selling some desserts, so we got those before we left. **Day 17: Souvenir Shopping in Tokyo** Another rainy day. We hadn't taken the time to buy souvenirs for people back home, so we spent the day around **Akihabara** and going to the **Don Quijote** there for snacks and small items. We then took a train to **Sunshine City Shopping Center** to look at some **gachapon** machines since some friends wanted weird and unique items. Not finding all the weird stuff we wanted, we walked around the shopping center more and then made our way to **Happy Pancake Ikebukuro** since we hadn't tried fluffy pancakes yet. Good pancakesvery fluffybut I guess I didn't get the hype. We dropped stuff off at our hotel and then headed out to **Harajuku Alta**, where we found another gachapon store called **Gacha Gacha no Mori Harajuku**. We liked this one better than Sunshine City because we found more hilarious and off-the-wall capsule toys. For dinner, we had AMAZING katsudon at a place near our hotel in Akasaka called **Happiness is KATSUDON Akasaka**, where I received the thickest pork cutlet I've ever had in my life. This was another one of my all-time favorite meals. The portions were so huge we regretted eating anything earlier in the day. The staff was so sweet, and we highly recommend this place. **Day 18: Final Day and Departure** We had to leave for our flight around 2:00 PM, so we did some small activities in the morning. We woke up early and first stopped at the **Akasaka Biz Tower**, which has a shopping center. My partner wanted to try the seasonal **Mela-Mela Frappuccino** that Starbucks in Japan had. We enjoyed people-watching from the Biz Tower while enjoying our drinks and food. We decided to take our time walking through the **Kokyo Gaien National Garden** and walking the path surrounding the **Imperial Palace**. We stopped at the **National Museum of Modern Art**. We finished the path around the Imperial Palace and made our way to a restaurant near our hotel called **TOMBOY Akasaka**, where we had a great lunch of curry and cheese naan before grabbing our bags held at the hotel and making our way to the airport. **A Redditor Encounter?** Throughout our journey, we noticed we kept crossing paths with the same guyfrom **Shinjuku** to **Matsumoto**, **Takayama**, **Shirakawa-go**, and finally **Kanazawa**. If you were this guy who was travelling during the dates I mentioned and saw a man and a woman in their late 20s traveling together, we wished we had actually spoken to you and hope you had an amazing trip! With the influx of tourists who all dress very similarly, we never spoke up as we could only be \\~80% sure it was you. We accidentally caught a quick glance of the Reddit symbol on your phone, which of course included r/JapanTravel, as we walked by you on the bus to Matsumoto. It seemed like we got our info from the same place, so I'm curious of how your trip ended up. Feel free to ask any questions, and I'll do my best to answer them!"}
{"id": "0075", "text": "(Edits: Originally posted this on my PC and trying to format so it doesnt cut off the first letters on Bold Font on mobile - rookie mistake ) Hi everyone! Me (M28) and my partner (F26) got back from our trip to Japan 3 weeks ago and wanted to leave a report in case it helps anyone else plan their trip. Luggage - We each brought one Large Suitcase, one Cabin Suitcase, and one backpack. - We didn't plan on using luggage-forwarding; this was mainly due to the fact we were staying in the same hotel in Tokyo, and the hotel kept our large suitcases in storage for free! Money - We brought the equivalent of 500/$650 in yen and put most expenses on our credit cards, withdrawing cash as and when needed. - In hindsight, I wouldve exchanged less in Yen (I purchased it at a high point relative to the (180) but by the time our holiday came round it got to a lower point (around 195). - We both have Monzo &amp; Revolut cards which have lower transaction fees on withdrawal and the split costs function makes it easier when traveling in a group Shinkansen Reservation - For the trains, I initially tried to use the SmartEx website (app at the time of writing is unavailable to users from UK &amp; Europe), however, encountered some trouble when trying to register a credit card when signing up for an account. - More recently, it seems they may have modified their card systems and I was able to register an account with my UK Mastercard recently. - In the end, I decided to use a website called JapanExperience to book the Shinkansen tickets (similar price to Klook). - After doing the math, for 6 tickets (Tokyo Kyoto; Shin Osaka Hiroshima, &amp; Hiroshima Tokyo) I paid about 40/$52 extra in booking/handling fees, but as it only amounted to less than 0.6% of our expenditures, I really didnt mind it. - (Edit 3 from comments: One of our Shinkansen reservations was accidentally booked in the more expensive Green Class so think we may have made some of those booking fees back ) - Id only recommend it if you cant access SmartEx and/or are traveling during busy periods (New Years, Golden Week, etc.). Day 1: Arrive in Tokyo (20,600 Steps) Hotel: The B Ginza - Close to several different subway lines, quite central location to the areas we wanted to explore, 30-ish minute travel time to get to Shinjuku, Shibuya, Asakusa, Akihabara - Room was pretty small and it was hard to maneuver two big suitcases in the room. - Chose it for the proximity to the UniQlo Flagship Store and my partner loves to do a lot of window shopping - We landed around 7:30am into Haneda, dropped off our bags at the hotel around 9:30am, and went to explore Odaiba (Diver City, Unicorn Gundam, Gundam Factory) until we were able to check-in. - Once settled in, we showered and had a 2-3hr nap. - Went out for dinner in Omoide Yokocho in Shinjuku, and took a stroll around the Golden Gai before calling it an early night Day 2: Ueno, Shinjuku &amp; Shibuya (36,300 Steps) - Woke up around 7am, took a stroll down to Tsukiji Fish Market which was a 10min walk from our hotel, before taking the Subway to Ueno. - Stopped off at the Hard Rock Cafe to grab another shirt for my collection, before taking a stroll around Ueno Park and visiting the Tokyo National Museum. - Made our way over to Shinjuku Gyoen after an early lunch and spent the early afternoon walking around the National Garden before making our way to Yoyogi Park and Meiji Jingu. - We severely underestimated how humid it would be so made our way back to the hotel for a wardrobe change, stopping by the UniQlo Flagship Store and the Wako Building for a quick Shopping spree. - Went out to Shibuya in the evening for another shopping spree in Pokmon Centre, Mega Don Quijote, Loft &amp; Shibuya 109 before dinner. Day 3: Asakusa, Skytree &amp; Akihabara (24,200 Steps) - Spent the early morning exploring Senso-ji and Nakamise-dori shops - Quick bite for lunch at a Konbini before spending the afternoon doing Street Karting (before the pitchforks come out, Ive posted a link to a comment detailing my overall thoughts and experience, hoping its a balanced take: https://www.reddit.com/r/JapanTravelTips/s/OZbBFn2lSN) - After the Karts, we walked over to Tokyo Skytree, unknowingly the time slot I booked was bang on sunset, so got some awesome views! - Hopped over to Akihabara for an early dinner before exploring the area, the Mandrake Store and the GIGA (formerly SEGA) Center trying and failing to win at Claw Machines. Day 4: Day trip to Mt. Fuji &amp; Hakone Loop (16,500 Steps) - Booked with Japan Panoramic Tours - 2hr30 bus ride from Ginza to Mt. Fuji 5th Station, before an early lunch, took the Cable Car to Mt. Owakudani, sampling some Black Egg, and back down for a River Cruise on Lake Ashi. - The Tour Bus dropped us off at Odawara station. - Overall, a really nice tour and great views of Fuji throughout the day except for on Fuji itself (fog rolled in as we approached 5th Station) - Tour included Shinkansen unreserved tickets back to Tokyo, got off at Shinagawa and made our way to Harajuku for a stroll down Takeshita Street. - Early dinner in Harajuku before back to the hotel Day 5: Tokyo Kyoto (22,400 Steps) Hotel: Urban Hotel Gojo Premium - Close to various bus stops and 10min walk to Gojo Station - Spacious room with a plentiful supply of toiletries and access to Spa which was very much needed after long walking days - Probably wouldve chosen their sister hotel up the road in Shijo as slightly better location for transport connections - Woke up early to get the 7:21am Nozomi down to Kyoto. Traveled with a Cabin Suitcase and Backpack each as the Tokyo hotel kept our larger Hold Bags for free. - Dropped off our bags in the hotel and made our way to Jotoku-Ji Temple for a Tea Ceremony at 11am. - Stroll around Nineizaka and lunchtime snack before making our way to Manryo Cooking Class, where we learned to make Dashi Broth, Tamagoyaki Omelette, Thick Udon Noodles and Sushi - by far one the most fun activities of the trip and highly recommend - Back to the hotel to get refreshed before going out to Nintendo Kyoto, dinner near Pontocho, and strolling around the Kamo River &amp; Gion. Day 6: Ni-Jo, Kinkaku-Ji &amp; Kyoto Gyoen (26,800 Steps) - Bit of a lie-in, bus to Nijo Castle (booked the tickets ahead of time as well as the extra for the Honmaru-goten Palace which requires a separate ticket). - From there got the bus to Kinkaku-Ji: Ive got to say it was slightly underwhelming, maybe due to the rainy day and crowds blocking the path trying to take the perfect shot - From there back towards the center, quick bite for lunch at a Konbini, stroll around Kyoto Gyoen and join the free tour at Kyoto Sento Imperial Palace. - Guide was in Japanese but there were audio guides available and the gardens were absolutely gorgeous. - Quick stopover at the Kyoto International Manga Museum before heading back to the hotel. - Despite taking Umbrellas from the hotel lobby we were quite wet and miserable so opted to just have dinner at the Ramen place next door and the rest of the evening using the Onsen Spa which was well needed. Day 7: Fushimi Inari , Kimonos &amp; Kiyomizu-Dera (31,200 Steps) - Early wake-up at 5:45am, hotel breakfast buffet and got to Fushimi Inari for 7am. - As mentioned many times before on this sub, its worth waking up early to beat the crowds (we bumped into about maybe 2 Dozen people on the way up). - Close to the summit of Mt. Inari found a nice quiet spot to pop the question! - By the time we got back down to Inari station around 9am it was beginning to crowd up. - A quick coffee stop in Inari before making our way to Yasaka Shrine and Chon-in Temple. - Early lunch in Nishiki Market before renting a Kimono and making our way to Nineizaka and Kiyomizu-Dera Temple. - Stroll through Gion before returning the Kimonos at 5pm. - Overall, enjoyed the experience although they were quite tight and I found waddling like a penguin worked best - Dinner in Kawaramachi before making our way through the bars in Pontocho to celebrate the engagement Thoughts on Kyoto - It definitely felt more overcrowded with the sheer number of tourists visiting the main spots - For Shrines and Temples, its worth either waking up early to beat the rush or visit in the evening to get a different atmosphere - Kyoto is quite spread out, what looks close on a map turns out to be a 30/40min bus ride and walk. Would definitely recommend trying to organise the itinerary by geographical location (I.e. dont do Fushimi Inari and Arashiyama Bamboo Grove on the same day) - Wish I had allocated more time to spend in Kyoto, but I guess thats what a 2nd trip is for Day 8: Osaka (36,100 Steps) Hotel: Hotel Cordia Osaka - Walking distance from Osaka Station &amp; Umeda - By far the most spacious room with a plentiful supply of toiletries Osaka Amazing Pass - 2 Day - Bought the 2 Day Pass via Klook. In hindsight, I shouldve used the 1 Day ePass instead, although Amazing did pay itself off over the 2 days, having to use multiple QR codes for 2 people on one phone was a bit of a hassle, and the recent price increase becomes a bit harder to make it pay itself back, especially if youre using one day at USJ. - Early breakfast and check-out from Kyoto Hotel, Rapid Express train down to Osaka, drop off our bags at next hotel - Walk over to Umeda Sky Building, and browse shops at Umeda Station. - Metro to Osaka Castle before heading down to Shinsekai for Lunch. - Went up to Tsutenkaku Tower for the views and then down Tsutenkaku Slide. - Headed over to Namba Yasaka Shrine before down to Dotonbori for the River Cruise at sunset, sampling Takoyaki and street food for dinner before heading back to the hotel via Namba. Thoughts on Osaka - Did most of the touristy sights as we only allocated one day to explore - Dotonbori had a sorta village festival vibe with its vast array of stalls, river boats playing live music and people enjoying the food and atmosphere - Osaka Castle is a concrete replica of the original one, the exhibits inside were quite interesting but wouldnt go out of my way to visit it Day 9: Universal Studios Japan (24,400 Steps) - Went mostly for Super Nintendo World - Bought Express Passes from Klook, with timed entry for SNW &amp; Harry Potter but we able to enter SNW with an earlier time slot via the app - Initially thought the Power Up Bracelets were an expensive gimmick but using it for the Mini Games and Power-Up Blocks made it well worth it - Unfortunately didnt realize that our Express Passes covered either The Ride or Jaws, had we realized earlier definitely wouldve queued up normally for Jaws - Overall really fun experience, Express Passes saved us cumulative queue times of 5-6 hrs on a Sunday which was awesome Day 10: Day Trip to Hiroshima &amp; Miyajima Island (17,400 Steps) - Early check-out to get the 6am Shinkansen from Shin Osaka to Hiroshima - Dropped off our small suitcases at a Locker and made our way to the Peace Park Guided tour by Pinpoint Traveller at 8:30am - Hiroshima Peace Park &amp; Atomic Bomb Dome - Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum - 1hr Train &amp; Ferry to Miyajima Island - Hiroshima Style Okonomiyaki for Lunch - Itsukushima Shrine and some free time to explore the island (it was Wet and Cloudy, so didnt bother with the Cable Car) - Back in Hiroshima Station for 4:45pm - 17:41 Shinkansen back to Tokyo, got to Hotel by 10pm, checked in to Tokyo Hotel Thoughts on Hiroshima - Hiroshima was a bucket list item for me, despite the small amount of time we spent there, it had a profound deep impact on us - Ideally if we had more time would definitely consider splitting Hiroshima and Miyajima into 2 days Day 11: Imperial Palace, TeamLab &amp; Shibuya Again (28,100 Steps) - Got to Imperial Palace for 9am, luckily one of the last few in the queue to make the 9:30am free guided tour - Palace itself was underwhelming but the surrounding grounds, walls &amp; gardens were beautiful - Back to Ginza with a stop-over at Pokmon Centre Nihonbashi for some shopping - Lunch at D+ Kitchen in Azabudai Hills (the Burger was to die for ) - TeamLab Borderless with 15:00 Entry Slot - Shibuya again in the evening for Dinner, with 8pm time slot for Shibuya Sky (unfortunately wet and cloudy evening which meant rooftop was closed but still some decent views of the city) - At now Fiances request, spent 2 hrs at a Big Echo Karins booth Thoughts on Tokyo - Did the typical touristy items first and really wish we had more time to explore some lesser known/off the beaten path items - Shinjuku is a delightful chaos of sensory overload and neon lights, my partner ended up loving Shibuya so spent more time there Day 12: Home Time Hotel Breakfast &amp; Checkout, Keikyu Line to Haneda Terminal 3 for 10am, Duty Free Shopping before 13:00 flight home General Notes and Remarks: - Bought a Holafly eSim Unlimited Data, worked most of the time except for up in Fuji 5th Station, other than that, sometimes would have no Data for a minute but then would come back - Partners phone isnt eSim compatible so also bought a Pocket WiFi (this came in handy when we accidentally got separated at a train station and were able to find our bearings - IC Cards are Key and double up as a form of payment - Google App and Google Translate come in very handy. With Lens, youll have to make sense of direct translation with no context, these tended to come up with weird and funny results - Comfy shoes are a must! Averaged 26K steps a day with 2 days almost clocking 40K! We bought 2 pairs so we were able to swap them from Day to Day. - Don quixote is not as cheap as it seems. Also doing the conversion from to , we noticed that the suitcases were super expensive for their relative sizes. Luckily we had packed light and of a Large suitcase and a carry-on of empty space for our souvenirs. The best part of the trip: Planning the next one for our Honeymoon"}
{"id": "0076", "text": "This post is a continuation of my Trip Report Part I. **DAY 10: Koyasan** *(steps: 20.000)* Luggage transfered, we took the multiple trains to Koyasan. Ate some lovely soba noodles from **Tsukumo**, a quaint little shop run by two old ladies. Saw the huge **Daimon Gate** and went for a stroll through **Garan**. There's a bunch of temples bunched together here, and while not a single one is really that impressive, it is nice to have this much variation in such close proximity. You can see quite a lot of different sorts and styles of architecture and decoration in under an hour. But the main reason to go to Koyasan is staying at a Shukubo, we opted for the **Shojoshin-In.** Overall I'm a bit mixed on the experience. We got a guided tour by a lovely monk who spoke surprisingly good English, he showed us around coming across really gentle and with a good sense of humor. The fully vegan dinner was also very tasty. But besides that, I really didn't feel it was that much of an experience per se. The environment is peaceful, but not uniquely so. And for what is a pretty steep price, you don't really seem to get that much in return. Maybe if you're super into buddhism it's a bit different, but I expected it to be a bit more of a holistic experience. As it turns out you basically get a tour and dinner, and after that you're just free to hang out like it's any other hotelroom. We spent the rest of our evening walking around the **Okunoin cemetery**, which was admittedly very peaceful. **DAY 11: Nara** *(steps: 26.000)* The highlight of the Shokubo-stay was the morning prayer. I've always had an interest in the usage of mantra in music, so it was great to see how full a sonic experience just 2 monks can create. Though your mileage may vary, and I can imagine some people finding it a bit longwinded and boring (as I think it lasted about an hour). After an interesting, but tasty breakfast (and an umeboshi that almost made my cheeks cramp up), we took the train to Nara. One of the big, unexpected highlights of our entire trip: **Sakura Burger**. I'm not the biggest hamburger-guy, but the wagyu-burger here was absolutely exceptional. Not in a fancy way, but every single element was simply presented at such a high standard, which made for a phenomenal eating experience. Easily the best burger I've ever had. Afterwards we went to **Harishuka** to do their sake tasting. We got ample explanation from a lovely lady, and got to taste 5 very different, very tasty cups of sake. It's a very quick experience - probaby around 15 minutes - but arguably the best 500 yen you could spend on your trip. We liked their sake so much, we bought two bottles to take to our hotel room, so their system definitely works. But when you say Nara, you say deer. And **Nara Park** really is the main attraction here. It's very fun to see the deer bow to receive their crackers. But it's even more fun to see other tourists who get scared and let the animals boss them around. We also went to see **Todai-Ji** which is absolutely enormous. We wanted to grab the sunset at **Mount Wakakusa**, only to find out the only walkable part is fenced off, and closes at 17u00. Everyone who is inside before 17u00 can stay as long as they want, people who arrive too late are out of luck, which feels like a really lame way to treat a mountainside. So we walked through **Kasuga Taisha** instead, which is nice, but felt a bit too similar to the Okunoin cemetery we'd done the previous day. We grabbed a box of sushi pressed in persimmon leaf from **Kakinohazushi Hiraso Todaiji,** which was an amazing little treat. We managed to grab the final box just before they closed, and it was absolutely delicious and still tasted superfresh. Ate some sort of unremarkable hotpot meal in a random restaurant and took the train to Kyoto to the Meldia Shijo Kawaramachi Annex, to enjoy our bottle of sake in the most spacious hotelroom we'd come across in all of Japan. **DAY 12: Kyoto, Higashiyama** *(steps: 31.000)* This will upset some people, but Kyoto was our least favorite city we visited in Japan. I know, I know. Maybe it's because we'd already seen quite a lot of what the city has to offer in Kanazawa and Nara, but it all felt a bit... dare I say, touristy? This is also the location where the lack of trashcans was by far the most annoying. And even more damning, unlike Tokyo and Osaka, the vending machines here don't even offer Dr Pepper. Disgraceful! Kyoto reminded me a lot of Firenze: there's obviously a lot of history and culture, and it's objectively beautiful. But it kind of gets lost in the crowds, and loses some of its character because it caters to tourists so heavy-handedly. Our Kyoto-days were probably the hottest of our entire trip, simply too hot to enjoy our customary konbini coffee. On the upside, this started my love affair with the Classic Gold Boss Coffee, an absolutely marvelous chilled can of coffee which I couldn't stop downing for the remainder of our trip. We started our day off at **Sajusangen-do**, which was fairly interesting, and the 1000-armed Kannon are quite a sight. Afterwards we went to the **Kennin-Ji**, which was hosting an exhibition on the dragon painter Koizumi, which was a fun surprise. All in all, I was perplexed that we'd seen this many temples, and they still managed to keep our interest. I won't say there wasn't eventually some degree of temple-fatigue (especially in Kyoto), but it wasn't nearly as bad as I'd anticipated. Had lunch at **Nishiki Market** which was a bit of a bust. Too crowded, didn't feel like there was a huge variety of foods, and what we did try was pretty average. But mostly it just felt flooded with tourists, which ofcourse isn't a big deal (we'd be part of the problem ourselves), but it just takes away from that specific Japan-magic when every couple of steps you're hearing an American shouting to his friends how great his scallops are (no offence to Americans, but I'm pretty sure most of them can relate). Took a jam-packed bus to **Kiyomizu-Dera**, which I'd say was the one and only time where things simply felt too crowded. We were packed like sardines in the streets running up to the temple, and inside the grounds there were simply too many visitors to really appreciate your surroundings. And maybe we're biased because of these circumstances, but we felt it to probably be the least remarkable of all temples we visited. Nice views though. We went through an equally crammed **Gion**, grabbed a matcha at the starbucks and some jelly-like mochi (not a fan), saw some great **Hokan-Ji** views, and decided we'd had enough. So where do you go when you feel templegrounds are overflooding with tourists? That's right, **Fushimi Inari**! But in all honesty, this turned out to be a big positive surprise. The sun was going down as we went there, all the shops were closed, but this also meant that the crowd had mostly dissipated. We took some wonderful photos from the base of the temple at sunset, took a comfortable walk upwards, and watched the sun completely disappear over the Kyoto skyline from the halfway point. Honestly, a really pleasant experience, and no need to get up at 6u00 just to beat the crowds. On our way back down we came across a baby boar, while we could hear its parent rustling in the bushes next to us. Easily the biggest adrenaline-rush of the entire trip. For dinner we went to **Kyoto Tonkatsu Katsuta Shijo Kawaramachi Store** (quite a mouthful). We had an amazing tonkatsu dinner with deepfried oysters, eggs, vegetables, and a perfectly medium rare deepfried steak, which felt like a bit of magic. One of the few places where we queued up for more than 15 minutes, and absolutely worth it. **DAY 13: Kyoto, Arashiyama** *(steps: 24.000)* Took the bus to **Otagi Nenbutsu-ji**, which was our favourite temple of the entire trip. It's refreshing to see some form of humor in a holy place like this, and we had an absolute blast watching the little stone guys. Easily our favourite place in Kyoto. Stepped into **Adashino Nenbutsu-ji** afterwards, which was pretty unremarkable (or maybe this was temple-fatigue finally kicking in). Working our way down Arashiyama, we went to the **Gio-ji** and **Okochi Sanso Villa**, which felt thematically connected somehow. Lot of emphasis on nature and gardens, which made for a refreshing change of pace. Also had a quick walk through the **Arashiyama Bamboo Grove**; wasn't all that crowded, but it doesn't feel all that special either. I think I preferred both the bamboo forests in Adashino Nenbutsu-Ji and in Kanazawa over the big one. Had some sort of iced ramen (pretty weird, but tasty!) from a superfriendly lady at Ramen . Having had over a week in nothing but 35 heat had made us cocky. We stopped really taking notice of the weather reports. We stopped bringing our umbrellas with us. Which meant we were caught completely unaware when all hell broke loose over **Kinkaku-Ji**. Just massive, massive downpours, and the limited places to take shelter were already filled up with the other visitors. We tried our best to stay dry, but after about 15 minutes we were completely drenched from head to toe. Admittedly, when it finally stopped raining and the sun hit the golden pavillion, it was a really pretty sight. Which ultimately makes Kinkaku-Ji kind of worth your while. Sure it's a bit out of the way, and there's not that much to see or do at all. But simply as a single tableau to take in, it's unlike anything else we came across in Japan. Having spent 45 minutes soaking wet in an airconditioned bus, we stopped by a McDonalds to check out if a Big Mac is any different in Japan than it is in Europe (it isn't). Went to the hotel for a hot shower and some dry clothes, and went out to find some dinner. This again really highlighted how tourist-minded Kyoto really is. Nearly every restaurant we came across was either a pricy set menu (10.000 yen+), an Italian or a French restaurant. We really took a long time trying to find a restaurant that appealed to us, way longer than in any other location we'd visited. We were about to give up and settle for an izakaya, when we came across **Abusan**, a tiny hole in the wall down a dark alley which seated about 8 people. Had some great enoyaki and yakisoba,, and washed it down with some highballs. A great and cheap meal, but it took a lot of effort to find. **DAY 14: Kanazawa** *(steps: 23.000)* The one thing that stood out to us about Kanazawa is how absolutely calm it is. It's a big city, but it often felt like a small village. You'd walk along this big boulevard with huge buildings on all sides, and you'd hear absolute silence. I'm not sure if I've ever heard actual silence in a city before. It made for a really relaxing vibe. Started off at **Omicho Market**, and even though we arrived pretty late and a lot of shops were already closing, this was so much more enjoyable than Nishiki Market had been. Not at all crowded, with a lot of regular produce shops so you know the locals go to the same market. Had some Hida croquettes, flambed scallop, a very funky oyster, and a sashimi bowl. Lovely stuff. Walked to the **Higashi Chaya** which was a charming little neighborhood that has a similar look and feel to Gion, but way less crowded. Did some souvenir shopping, took some photos, had some soft serve, and walked over to **Kenrokuen**. Which was fine. I'm not really big on gardens, so I honestly couldn't tell you how much better this one is over other gardens. But it did make for a relaxing stroll, which sometimes is all you really need. The **Naga Machi** district looked stunning in the harsh sunset, but sadly most of the attractions had closed down by the time we got there. Which was a shame, cause it really felt like this could just have been the most interesting place in Kanazawa. We had reservations for an omakase at **Sushi Nao (Sushi ).** It started out a bit awkward; it's a bit hard to find without any signage on the building, and chef's English makes conversation a bit tricky (eventhough he was obviously incredibly kind). But the food was absolutely staggering, with each dish being wonderfully balanced and packing big bold flavours. One big added bonus is that we're pretty sure we had the only reservations for the night, so chef invited some of his friends to come by and help break the ice. We had a wonderful time interacting with these friendly people and their supercute daughter (who they at multiple times handed over so they could take our photo). Which made a great evening all the more memorable. Highly recommended, and one of the standout evenings we had in Japan. Spent the night in a capsule hotel, simply to have the experience. It was quite interesting, as everybody just completely and 100% minded their own business and didn't interact whatsoever. So it's a fun thing to do as an experience, and I'd recommend it for the novelty, but it's easily the worst we both slept during our entire trip. **DAY 15: Shirakawa-Go / Takayama** *(steps: 18.000)* **Shirakawa-Go** really was an atmosphere in and of itself. The housing is quaint and pretty, the nature is beautiful. There is an observatory deck that makes for a beautiful view, and interesting museums that showcase old tools and housing. What really gives it this special feeling is that it's still a fully lived-in town. Locals were working the fields, cutting the rice, which on the one hand made it feel very authentic. But you can't really help but feel sorry for those people just doing their jobs while a busload of tourists are staring at them. It's a wonderful stop on your trip, which can be fully appreciated in a couple of hours. Had some tasty Hida Miso before taking the highwaybus (which has some breathtaking views!) to Takayama. (Editorial note by gf: I forgot to mention the delicious sesame pudding we had at **House of Pudding**) Initial reactions of Takayama were a bit disappointing. The area around the station looks pretty rundown, and even the big shopping road is lacking any charm. But once you enter the **Sanmachi-suji** area, you'll fully understand the appeal. There isn't necessarily a lot to do in Takayama, it's all about taking in the atmosphere, shopping and food and drinks. Most notable in Takayama are the Sake breweries that provide tastings. So we started out and went to **Harada**. For 1000 yen you get a special little cup, and you can try out 15 different bottles that are stored in a fridge. You only get half an hours to do the tastings though, so if you want to try them all you'll be drinking rather quickly. Which I obviously did, which will give you a very serious buzz at 15u30 in the afternoon. Sadly, compared to the tasting we did in Nara, we didn't really like the sake this place had to offer. They were all quite harsh, and nearly all of them tasted fairly identical. We went across the street to **Funasawa**, where you had to buy tokens and get your sake from machines. The sake here overall was way nicer, with clearly different notes in each drink. We tried and enjoyed a couple of cups here, but not too many, because I didn't want to get absolutely hammered in the middle of the day. Went for a slow drink and walked around to clear my head, and ended the day having shabu shabu and amiyaki at **Suzuya.** Where the food was ok, but the staff was putting up a bit too much of a show for my liking. **DAY 16: Takayama / Ryokan** *(steps: 11.000 (bliss))* The **Migayawa Morning Market** was fun, but quite a bit smaller than expected. Still bought some great souvenirs and scored some rare non-konbini breakfast, with some fabulous Hida sushi and skewers. I was really excited for the **Showa-kan**, and it absolutely exceeded my expectations. Gorgeous rooms filled to the brim with authentic items from the 1970 and '80s. You've got arcades, hairdressers, electricians, and so much more. An absolute dream for photography if you like this aesthetic. Also got to try Super Mario again and managed to get to world 7 this time, leading to a big fat \"I told you so\" to the gf. We had some more time to kill, which meant we had some more sake to taste. **Hirata** was the most expensive one we entered, but also clearly had the nicest sakes. Fresh and tasty, it really felt like a step up in quality from the previous day. Drank a couple of cups, and then went to **Hirase**. This was easily the most fun tasting, simply because they had a whopping 23 bottles to try in a mere 30 minute time limit, averaging about a cup a minute. Their product was really nice though, with lots of different nuances between bottles. So we bought a bottle for the evening, and quickly went and got some fresh onigiri to try and offset the solid smack to the face this place had given me. But ultimately, this day was all about our ryokan stay. We opted for the **Yamazato-no-iori Soen**, which is about an hour and a quite pricey busticket out of Takayama. First thing's first: it obviously wasn't cheap, but none of these places are, and ultimately I feel you do get quite a decent bang for your buck. There were three different types of onsens here: private, gender-seperated and a main one. We dabbled in all of them (the prettiest one was also insanely hot, I genuinely couldn't last more than 15 minutes in there). But ultimately we really did prefer simply to do the private ones, which were available both times we wanted to use them. The water here was a more pleasant temperature and the baths were fully outdoors, which overall made for a way more enjoyable experience than the Hakone onsen. We also got an absolute sublime kaiseki meal with 6 or so courses, all featuring excellent local products (including some more excellent Hida beef). Language was a bit more of an issue around here (all other guests seemed to be Japanese), but through the usual mixture of kindness and pointing at things, we got along great. It is a bit pricey, and there were other experiences in Japan which I definitely preferred. But if you can fit it into your budget, it really is quite the treat. **DAY 17: Hida-Region / Shinjuku return** *(steps: 17.000)* After a great breaktfast and morning-soak in the onsen, we took the bus back to Takayama and got off halfway at the **Hida Great Limestone Cave.** There is a museum of international artworks, and the caves are pretty fun. A solid enough way to spend an hour or two, but nothing special. Didn't have time for a decent meal, so we grabbed some deepfried snacks. Got a coffee before taking the multiple-trains trip to return to Tokyo. Snacked on a great ekiben which was simply a block of rice topped with a slab of salmon. Delicious. After checking in to our final hotel (ICI HOTEL Ueno Shin Okachimachi; nice rooms, but probably our worst hotel location-wise), we went to take our return-trip to Shinjuku. Our main aim was to return to **Golden Gai**, which felt too intimidating for us the first time around. But this time, we were fully prepared! We had more than two weeks of Japan-experience under out belts, and had interacted with some of these tiny bars and restaurants. This time, we weren't going to be fazed by the sleazy, standoffish atmosphere of the many bars. We were going to sit next to those moody Japanese men and drink alongside them! So we really were surprised when we entered Golden Gai and it had seemingly turned into Partytown USA. There were guided tours walking around, virtually every bar we could see was filled up with tourists, and on many locations people were even queuing up outside until they could get in. This was a saturday night, so that'll account to some of the patronage, but we were honestly flabbergasted at the complete 180 turn the atmosphere of these grimey alleys had made. It felt nonsensical to pay a table charge to join the one bar with a free seat we could find, so we just left it for what it is. This really was a testament to how volatile your holiday-experiences really are. Whatever you read on Reddit or see on Youtube while preparing for your trip, in the back of your head you should always remember that circumstances outside of your control are what can make or break any location, any activity, any experience. Someone's worst meal could easily be your favorite, your most disappointing evening could be someone else's epic vacation-story. We basically walked round Shinjuku some more looking for dinner, but maybe this disappointment altered our mood too much, because we really didn't like it as much this time around. Too crowded, too unsavoury. When I was confronted by one of those notorious Nigerian hustlers, I knew I was done. So we had some quick dinner at the only place that didn't have a huge line waiting (Dandadan Gyoza, was ok) and returned to the hotel. We did manage to knock one more thing off of the bucketlist, though: we got some strong zero's. And I have to say: way nicer than people make it out to be! **DAY 18: Akihabara / Sumo Tournament / Asakusa Return** *(steps: 21.000)* I was a bit scared **Akihabara** would turn out like Den Den Town or Kappabashi, but I shouldn't have worried. Akihabara is bustling, and we had a blast running around here. Played a bunch of claw-games, enjoyed some rounds of Taiko no Tatsujin and submitted to the chaos that is multiball airhockey. Also entered the Super Potato, which is fun to see. We had a quick lunch at a random sutadon place which really hit the spot and perfectly prepared us for what was coming. The **Great Sumo Tournament** was probably the pinnacle of our trip. I was a bit nervous the matches might not be as popular with the locals anymore, but the arena was absolutely filled to the brim with people who were really into it. Outside there were all kinds of activities going on (some sort of parade carrying a big throne?), which really gave the whole afternoon a festivous, joyful feeling. We had a lot of fun figuring out all the little rules and nuances of the sport as the matches were playing. We spent about 4 or 5 hours here, and they absolutely flew by. Ofcourse, I was wearing my Japanese soccer jersey (as one does), and a guy commented how great he thought it was, so obviously that got me on the biggest high. But even my gf - who isn't really into any kinds of sports - claims the sumo as the most fun activity we participated in. I can not rate it highly enough, and I'd implore anyone visiting Japan to try and check out some sumowresting. Our trip was nearing its end, so we returned to Asakusa to fill up on Don Quijote souvenirs at the store where we started out trip. Afterwards we got some standing sushi at **Hinatomare Kaminarimon**, and while we enjoyed them all, this was the best \"fastfood\" sushi we had in Japan. So fresh, so tasty. Also, another customer here commented on my jersey once again, so that made the sushi taste that much sweeter. **DAY 19: Ghibli Museum / Kichioji** *(steps: 26.000)* Final day! A quick stroll to Inokashira Park got us the the **Ghibli Museum**, which was a pretty fun time. The decoration of the place is simply wonderful with amazing attention to detail, everywhere you look you'll spot a hidden Totoro or something from Kiki's Delivery Service. Seeing one of the mythical exclusive shortfilms was ofcourse a big highlight, but I really enjoyed the museum which explained the history of cinema and animation. This is nothing new to me as I have quite a lot of experience in this general field, but this was by far the most engaging and fun way I've seen these mechanics explained. I also really enjoyed the accurate representations of an animator's messy workstations and the depictions of Miyazaki and Takahata. There was a temporary exhibition showcasing the storyboards of The Boy and the Heron, but that didn't do a lot for me. Overall it was a fun time, definitely recommended if you're a Ghibli fan, but it didn't blow me away. For the official ticketprice of 1000 yen it's a no-brainer, but the 50 we had to pay a guy on fiverr does feel a tad steep. We decided to stay in **Kichioji** to do some final shopping, which was a really nice little area of Tokyo. Kichioji doesn't seem to get as much love online as some of the more famous areas, but we really enjoyed the shopping streets and malls here. It feels way more lived in than many other Tokyo-areas, and while it still pretty busy, it didn't feel swamped. It feels like a city where the locals are spending the day and taking their time, instead of everything always rushing forward. We got some taiyaki, maxed out the remainder of our credit card on Uniqlo trousers, and went around looking for the perfect Gacha-souvenirs for friends and family back home. Our final activity in Japan - and it honestly is really weird it took us this long - was to get some tonkotsu ramen. I guess I thought it'd be more prevailent throughout Japan, that virtually every ramen joint would be a tonkotsu place. But that's not really the case, and if you want to be certain of getting tonkotsu you have to do some specific googling. We ended up at **Tatsunoya Tonkotso** in Shinjuku. Now, I love tonkotsu. I've dabbled in making it at home, and we're big fans of a place in Brussels that does an excellent tonkotsu. But this really was a whole other level. The depth of flavour you get out of this broth and that rich, salty coating of your mouth is simply unmatched. In retrospect we really should have prioritized getting good tonkotsu ramen a bit more (I honestly could eat a bowl of this stuff every day), but as it stands it still made for a very satisfying note to end our trip on. \\------- Some 24 odd hours later we were back home, deeply contented with the incredible experiences we've had. I hope it's clear reading this that I absolutely adored my time in Japan. Personally it was easily the best holiday I've went on in my lifetime, and it will simply be a matter of time before we head back."}
{"id": "0077", "text": "Hey everyone! I recently took a 16-day trip to Japan with my parents (Im in my 30s, parents in their 60s), and I wanted to share our experiences. We came back yesterday. This was a special trip for us, as it was the first time me and my parents had visited a country in Asia. I'll provide an overview of our trip, along with daily details about what we planned versus what we ended up doing. Feel free to ask about anything! # General Impressions: * **Positives:** Japan is absolutely beautiful. The people are incredibly polite and respectful, the country is clean and organized, and public transport is fantastic. Even the small quirks like the music at stations and traffic lights add to the charm. We loved the food, and the coffee...amazing. The public toilets were always clean (smart toilets are amazing), and people patiently line up for buses, which was refreshing to see. * **Negatives:** Over-tourism, particularly in Kyoto, where some tourists didnt follow the rules (like cutting lines and making a lot of noise). It was quite frustrating. # Tips for Future Travelers: * **Bring good shoes**: Youll walk a lot, and there are many inclines, especially in temples and shrines. * **Get a Suica card**: Its super convenient for public transport. * **Use luggage delivery services**: We had 4 different hotels, and having our bags sent ahead to the next destination was great (we send it day before check-in in the new hotel). Hotel staff helped us with the paperwork, and when we arrived, our luggage was already waiting in our room. * **Book attractions in advance**: We pre-booked TeamLab Borderless, the bus to Shirakawa-go, and the Gion Corner performance. For the Shinkansen, we booked tickets the day before traveling, though once we struggled to sit together when we booked it on the day itself. * **Take rest days**: We underestimated how physically exhausting it would be. By the last day in Tokyo, we were burned out. Don't hesitate to use public transport more to avoid walking fatigue. * **Weekends are busier**: Crowds are significantly larger on weekends, so plan accordingly if you're crowd-sensitive # Day 1: Arrival in Shinjuku * **Original Plan**: Arrival at Narita, Suica cards, Shinjuku Gyoen, Meiji Jingu Gaien Ginkgo Avenue, Shinjuku exploration, Golden Gai, Hanazone Shrine, Tokyo Metropolitan Government Building view * **What Happened**: After a long 13-hour flight, we were exhausted but managed to get through customs quickly thanks to QR codes we pre-arranged. We arrived in Shinjuku, checked into Century Tower Hotel, and after resting a bit, we ventured out to explore Kabukicho, Golden Gai (mainly populated with tourists), and visited our first shrine (Hanazone Shrine) Had dinner at Japanese Risotto Otsu and visited Don Quijote, though it was a bit too much stimulation for my parents. We had good coffee and cake at Shu Premium Shinjuku. After that we called it a day and went back to the hotel to get some rest. **Lesson learned**: Jetlag hit us hard, so we didnt manage to visit Shinjuku Gyoen or Meiji Jingu Gaien Ginkgo Avenue as planned. # Day 2: Walk to Shibuya from Shinjuku * **Original Plan**: Meiji Jingu, Treasure Museum, Harajuku, Takeshita Street, Togo Shrine, Cat Street, Shibuya Scramble, Hachiko Memorial Crossing, Shibuya Parco, Nintendo Tokyo, Pokemon Center, MEGA Don Quijoto. * **What Happened**: One of my favorite days! We visited Meiji Jingu, strolled through Harajuku, and stopped by a caf called Reissue, where they 3D printed foam lattes (I got Totoro!). We visited the Togo shrine and walked via Cat Street to Shibuya, where we had a coffee at Coffee Sakan Shu Premium Grand Shibuya (good coffee and cake like previous day). We visited Shibuya Scramble and Hachiko Statue but skipped Shibuya Sky as it was sold out. Mega Don Quijote, Nintendo Tokyo, and the Pokemon center were overcrowded, so we didnt spend much time there and it was not enjoyable. Had a meal at an izakaya in Shibuya before heading back. **Note**: Plan attractions like Shibuya Sky in advance because tickets can sell out, especially for popular viewpoints. # Day 3: Kamakura Day Trip * **Original Plan**: Visit several temples, the bamboo forest, Komachi-dori, Kamakura Daibutsu, Hasedera, and Yuigahama Beach. * **What Happened**: Kamakura was great as well. We explored Komachi-dori, Tsurugaoka Hachimangu, and had coffee in a lovely hidden garden caf. The bamboo forest at Hokokuji Temple was unique and impressive, and we had matcha tea there. Hasedera Temple was one of the best temple experiencesbeautiful grounds and serene atmosphere. The little statues were so cool. * Daibutsu was okay but didnt compare to Hasedera. Made less of an impression on us. Dinner at Onari Yokocho Kamakura was delicious, with (vegetarian) sushi. * We did not manage to visit the Chokozan Myohon Temple, Zeniarai Benten Shrine, and the Kakakura Yuigahama Beach. # Day 4: Senso-ji, Ueno, and Yanaka * **Original Plan**: Visit Senso-ji, Ueno Park, and Yanaka Cemetery. * **What Happened**: Great day! Senso-ji was crowded in the morning, but we returned later in the evening when it was quieter and much more enjoyable. We walked along the Sumida River and watched the Skytree from afar. We visited a caf called Bee Friendship, which had a bee/honey theme. Delicious coffee, cake, and ice cream. We made our way to Ueno, where I twisted my knee, so we visited Ueno Zoo for a low-key activity, and skipped the park exploration. Also, my parents wanted to see the Panda exhibition. Yanaka was a hidden gemwe were the only ones in some temples. One of the temples being the Kannonji Temple which is said to have connections with the Ako Ronin. We finished the day at Tayori for dinner, then revisited Senso-ji at night. # Day 5: Minato and Odaiba * **Original Plan**: TeamLab Borderless, Tokyo Tower, Zojo-ji Temple, Atago Jinja, Hamarikyu Gardens, Rainbow Bridge, Odaiba Marine Park, Gundam. * **What Happened**: TeamLab Borderless exceeded all expectationsthe immersive rooms and music were great. We walked to Tokyo Tower and Zojo-ji Temple, but we felt lackluster due to the bad weather (all day rain). We attempted Odaiba afterwards, but the malls were overcrowded, so we quickly left after seeing the Gundam statue. Ended the day with ramen at Soushi Menya Musashi and visited the 2d cafe in Shinjuku afterwards. **Tip**: Odaiba can get extremely busy on rainy days when everyone heads to the malls. # Day 6: Central Tokyo and Akihabara * **Original Plan**: Explore Tokyo Station, Tokyo Character street, JP Tower, Intermediatheque, Mitsubishi Ichigokan Museum, Imperial Palace Gardens, and Akihabara. * **What Happened**: We explored Tokyo Station and the Imperial Palace Gardens, but we noticed some walking fatigue, so we decided to have a rest. Akihabara was packedway more than we expected for a weekendso we didnt stay long. It was not enjoyable to visit the stores with these crowds. I went back out to Shinjuku for some last-minute arcade gaming and Don Quijote shopping. **Note**: Saturdays and Sundays can be overwhelming in areas like Akihabara. Also looking back, we should have taken more rest as we were not prepared for this crowdedness and the physical impact of walking a lot of steps everyday. # Day 7: Tokyo to Takayama * **Original Plan**: Take the Shinkansen from Tokyo to Takayama, explore Takayama Old Town including the different temples. * **What Happened**: We took the Shinkansen from Tokyo to Nagoya and transferred to the Limited Express Hida to Takayama. The journey through the mountains was scenic and relaxing. After arriving in Takayama, it started raining, but we still decided to walk through the old town streets. The main people we saw were tourists. After dinner at an izakaya, we found a temple (Sakurayaam Hachimangu Shrine), where people were chanting inside. That was a very cool experience during the rain and darkness. I believe it was the preparation for the Autumn festival that took place in the following days in Takayama. We had coffee at Cha-Mama Cafe, and went back tot he hotel, where I relaxed in the onsen. In the end, we only visited 1 temple out of the 4 planned. # Day 8: Shirakawa-go Day Trip * **Original Plan**: half-day tour of Shirakawa-go. Visit museums in Takayama. * **What Happened**: We took the bus to Shirakawa-go, and luckily it was dry when we explored the farmhouses. We wandered through the village and it was peacefull and much less crowded than expected. We ate the famous pudding (pudding house), had coffee and cake and \"Kyoshu\" Traditional Coffee shop and had some hida beef skewers at Zensuke. Delicious. After coming back to Takayama, we visited some oter temples like the Hida Kokubun-ji temple. Afterwards, we had dinner at Cha-Mama Cafe, where we took the Hida beef menu. Good god, never in my life did I taste such good beef. A real gem. Afterwards we went back to the hotel. **Tip**: If youre planning to visit Shirakawa-go, definitely book your bus tickets in advance. The bus was fully reserved. # Day 9: Takayama Autumn Festival * **Original Plan**: Morning markets, Shoren-Ji Temple, Higashiyama Hakusan Shrine, Takayama Castle Ruins, Enjoy the Autumn Festival. * **What Happened**: We got to experience the Takayama Autumn Festival, and we did not do much of what we originally planned to do this day. The festival floats (yatai) were on display, and we even caught part of the parade (both during midday and evening). Downside was that there were many pushy tourists that wanted a prime spot for the puppet theatre, even pushing some of the locals aside. I had delicious Okonomiyaki from the food stalls. # Day 10: Travel to Kyoto * **Original Plan**: Visit Yasaka Shrine, Maruyama Park, Kodaji Temple, Gion Exploration * **What Happened**: We took the Narita Express back to Nagoya, then transferred to the Shinkansen to Kyoto. Once in Kyoto, we checked into our townhouse in Gion. On the way, we stopped at Sanjusangen-do Temple, with its 1001 statues of Kannon and 28 Buddhist guardian deities. This temple was incredibly impressive and stood out as one of the best temples from the inside for me (and my parents). After check-in, we explored the Gion area, including a visit to a small temple dedicated to pigs called Zenkyo-an. For dinner, we ate at Kobe Beef Ramen Takara, which initially seemed a bit shady, but the sukiyaki ramen was delicious. We ended the evening with coffee and cake in Pontocho Alley. # Day 11: Exploring Gion Area * **Original Plan**: Visit Kiyomizu-dera, Sannenzaka, Ninenzaka, Kenninji Temple, and Fushimi Inari Taisha * **What Happened**: We started the day at Kiyomizu-dera, which was crowded but impressive temple complex, and fun to walk around. The shopping streets leading to the temple were also packed with people. As we walked further north, we discovered Ryozen Kannon, a memorial to the dead of the pacific war, featuring a very impressive statue. Later, we took a break in Maruyama Park and visited the adjacent Yasaka Shrine. For dinner we enjoyed a meal at Kyoto Tonkatsu Kauda Sanjo Kawaramachi store, where the tonkatsu was delicious. Afterwards, we spend the evening exploring Gion area. We were too tired to attempt Fushimi Inari Taisha today. # Day 12: Alternative Plans - Fushimi Inari and Uji * **Original Plan**: Do the Kuruma - Kibune hike, Gion Corner performance * **What Happened**: Due to tiredness, we decided to skip the Kurama-Kibune hike, which after researching is quite demanding and has many steps. Instead, we started the day by visiting Fushimi Inari Taisha, walking up to the crossroads. Afterwards, we traveled to Uji, where we enjoyed tea and pancakes at Uji Kouchakan - Highly recommended! We also visited the Byodo-in Temple and explored some local match shops. In the evening we attended the Gion Corner show, showcasing traditional Japanese performances. Although its catered to tourists, it was enjoyable, and my parents loved it. # Day 13: Philosopher's path * **Original Plan**: Visit Tenjuan, Nanzen-ji Temple, Eikando Temple, Okazaki Shrine, walk the Philosopher's Path, Honen-in Temple, Ginkaku-ji, Kyoto Stento Imperial Palace, Nijo Castle. * **What Happened**: We began the day by heading to the Philosopher's path. Unfortunately Tenjuan Temple was closed, so we started with Nanzen-ji Temple, which had beautiful grounds (we went inside). We explored the temple and its gardens. After lunch at Breizh Caf Creperie, we strolled along the Philosopher's path feeling quite zen. On the way, we visited Otoya Shrine (various animal statues), Honen-in Temple (where we saw snakes, heard monkeys, and monks chanting in the background), and Ginkaku-ji (Silver Pavilion). These temples were all unique in their own way and good to check out, especially Ginkaku-ji and Nanzen-ji. Also, the path and the shrines were not as busy. Lastly, we took a bus to Nijo Castle, which was worth the visit, also for its beautiful gardens. The day ended with burgers at Craft Dining Upit, and sake at one of the bars in Pontocho. # Day 14: Himeji day trip * **Original Plan**: Visit Himeji Castle, Koko-en, Miyuki Street Shopping District, Mt. Shosha, Engyoji Temple * **What Happened**: We took the Shinkansen from Kyoto to Himeji and started touring Himeji castle, though we only explored the grounds and skipped the interior due to the crowds. Afterwards, we visited the nearby Koko-en Garden, which, while lovely, didn't stand out as much after seeing so many incredible gardens earlier in the trip. After a break, we took the bus to the Mt. Shosha Ropeway and made our way to Engyoji Temple. This temple complex was really beautiful in the middle of nature, and still varied enough compared to the other temples we've seen so far. Also, there were very few visitors. For dinner, we went back to Himeji centre and ate at Masuya, a local izakaya. The atmosphere and the food was great, we even had a friendly chat with a Japanese couple, who gave us some tips on the menu and toasted with us over sake. We returned to Kyoto by Shinkansen, and in the evening, I explored some shops in the Kyoto Center. # Day 15-16: Narita Hotel and Flight back to the Netherlands * **What Happened**: Checkout out of our accommodation in Kyoto and travelled to Narita for our flight back home. We stayed at a hotel near Narita Airport for the final night. # Final Thoughts: Japan was an incredible experience, but physically challenging at times, especially with the amount of walking and stairs. If youre planning a trip, build in some rest days to avoid burnout. We loved every minute of it, from the bustling streets of Tokyo to the quiet temples in Kyoto. I cant wait to return! We just got back yesterday and Im still recovering from the flight and jet-lag but the trip was so so amazing. Writing this review really makes me sad that its over, but happy of all the experiences that we had. There is so much to see and do! I will definitely be back."}
{"id": "0078", "text": "Hi everyone! I (solo F) just got back from my trip and wanted to leave a report in case it helps anyone else plan their trip. A quick note: this is technically my second trip to Japan, but since my first was a study abroad semester, I've done most of the more \"typical\" things during my semester abroad (Ex. Shibuya Sky, Kiyomizu-dera, Osaka Castle). So that's why they're excluded from my itinerary. **Luggage:** I brought one large suitcase, one duffle, and one backpack. The duffle was for overnight trips, which came in handy. Though I didn't plan on using luggage-forwarding, I ended up using it once my big suitcase got too heavy. **$$$:** I brought the equivalent of $1000 USD in yen. I used it pretty sparingly and put most of my expenses on my credit card. I have the Bilt card and highly recommend it: no transaction fees and I stayed at most of the hotels for free by redeeming them with Bilt points. Really helped keep my costs down. **Shinkansen Reservation:** for all trains on the main island, I used the SmartEx app to reserve seats with oversized luggage space. Pretty easy to do and no charges for changing the time of the train on the day of if you suddenly realize you can't make a train. I bought the All-Area Kyushu Rail 7-day pass, starting from the Hakata-Kumamoto trip. I did the math and it was much more worth it than buying each ticket separately. To reserve an over-sized luggage seat with the pass, just go to the JR Station Office and the staff there will help you do that. **Day 1: Arrive in Tokyo** * I arrived pretty late (6pm) so I just had dinner with a friend before tuning in for the night * **Hotel:** APA Hotel Ningyosho Eki Kita * Close to several different subway lines; 35-ish minute train ride to Disneyland * Room was pretty small and it was hard to maneuver my big suitcase in the room. * I chose it for its proximity to the Yurakucho BicCamera lol **Day 2: Tokyo Disneyland** * I downloaded the Tokyo Disney Resort App and used the Priority Pass &amp; Standby Passes. I didn't need to get the paid Disney Premier Access and went on all the rides I wanted Ex. Pooh's Hunny Hunt, Beauty &amp; the Beast, Big Thunder Mountain * Highly recommend staying for the Electrical Parade Dreamlights show at night! * Didn't go to the new Fantasy Springs since that was in Disneysea * Paid out of pocket **Day 3: Kyoto/Kibune** * Took the 6:42 AM Shinkansen to Kyoto Stn. Dropped off bags at hotel, and then took transport to Kibune. Ended up just taking the bus there and the train back. * **Activities:** * Hirobun - read online that the wait time was long so I went here first to get a number * The nagashi somen was pretty worth it as an experience, I think. Definitely had better food during the trip but I do recommend trying this. * Hyoue Cafe - kawadoko-style cafe; can have desserts and lattes while dipping your feet into the river * Kifune Shrine - really pretty but pretty overcrowded. Hard to get nice pictures of the scenery without getting 10000 people in. * the mizu-mikuji was pretty cool (omikuji in water) * also got a goshuin here * I considered doing the hike to Kuramadera but I wasn't dressed for hiking and the bugs were pretty intense * Went back to Kyoto around 4pm and spent a few hours shopping at Nishiki Market * if you love spicy food, highly recommend Ochanoko saisai! * **Hotel:** Kyoto Universal Hotel Karasuma * It looked pretty close to Kyoto Station on Google maps, but in reality, it was a bit of a walk and not really accessible if you have a big luggage (it wasn't a big deal for me) * Paid for with Bilt Points * Included a half-board (2 meals) and had an onsen! **Day 4: Amanohashidate** * I left my big suitcase at the Kyoto hotel and just took my duffle bag on the bus. I booked the bus ticket in advance on this website. The trip was from 7:20 am to 9:25 am. * I rented a bike from this store. The area was pretty bikeable in my opinion. * **Attractions:** * Amanohashidate View Land - took the monorail up (chair-lift was not working) * had pudding * tried and failed at the pottery toss * Bought a \"ryu no onegaidama\" for Naraiji Temple * Tried matanozoki (looking between your legs) - VERY cool experience * Chionji Temple - got goshuin and the fan omikuji * Biked across the sandbar * Had lunch at Hashidate Chaya (located on the sandbar) * Biked to Kasamatsu Park - went to Manai Shrine, Motoise Kono Jinja to get goshuin, and then took the chairlift up to another lookout * Hiked to Naraiji from the park (half an hour?) * I considered biking to Ine but it was getting a bit late and I had to return my bike back to the original shop to get my deposit back. * **Hotel:** Auberge Amanohashidate * LOVED this spot! Paid out of pocket for the stay and dinner at the restaurant. But you get access to the big onsen at Amanohashidate Hotel next door. The bathrooms are shared but since each room has its own faucet, I didn't find this to be inconvenient. **Day 5: Uji** * I took the earliest bus (booked through same link as above) back to Kyoto Station and because the hotel was again, kind of far, I left my duffle in a coin locker at the station and went directly to Uji * **Attractions:** * Byodo-in Temple and Museum - pretty cool but looking back, I don't think it's necessary to wait around to go see the Phoenix Hall. It's just one room and the tour is given in Japanese. You do get a brief brochure in your preferred language but it's definitely not as thorough as what the guide is saying * Uji-Shrine and Ujigami-Jinja - these two are next to each other and if you love bunnies, they have lots of cute rabbit motifs * Walked along Uji River and to To-no-shima Island * Tsuen Tea House - had lunch here (cha soba), had ice cream, and bought souvenirs * Mimurotoji Temple - a bit of a walk from the other attractions (40min-1hr) but I thought it was nice * Walked through Byodo-in Omotesando Street and bought souvenirs **Day 6: Osaka/Katsuoji** * Left Kyoto early-ish, dropped off stuff at hotel, and headed to Katsuoji. Be mindful of the bus times. Katsuoji took half a day, and I spent the rest of the day in the Namba area. * **Attractions:** * Katsuoji Temple - really cool experience seeing all the darumas and completing the 6 stamps postcard * Lunch at Cinnamoroll Cafe in Namba * Namba Yasaka Shrine * Had dinner in Dotonbori * went to Umeda Sky Building at night - the escalator was super cool * **Hotel:** Sunny Stone Hotel * I really liked the location: it was 8 minutes by subway from Shin-Osaka Station, so it was easy to get there right after getting off the shinkansen. Highly recommend staying near Shin-Osaka Station rather than Osaka Station. * Paid for with Bilt Points * Breakfast included **Day 7: Universal Studios Japan** * Went mostly for the Demon Slayer attraction lol * I got on pretty much every ride without waiting a long time since I was a solo rider. If you're by yourself or don't mind sitting with strangers, this is a faster option and you don't need to buy a fast pass or anything. * Kinopio Cafe - had lunch here. Reservations are pretty hard to get so try to get this as soon as possible. * I got the time reservation for the Harry Potter and Nintendo areas * Stayed for Halloween Nights - it was alright **Day 8: Himeji** * To be honest, there wasn't much to do here other than the castle. I considered doing Engyoji Temple and Mount Shosha too but was too tired. * **Attractions:** * Himeji Castle - they had a lot of English descriptions in the castle so it was quite interesting to learn about the castle and its inhabitants' stories * Miyuki Shopping Street * Koko-en Garden + Soju-an Teahouse * **Hotel:** Himeji Station Universal Hotel South Exit * included half-board and onsen * Paid with Bilt Points * Overall: I'm glad I got to see Himeji Castle since it's a national treasure, but I don't think I'd return again. **Day 9: Okunoshima (rabbit island)** * Had some transportation mishaps getting here. My shinkansen was delayed by 40 minutes and threw off all the local transportation I had planned. The local train doesn't run that often from Mihara Stn. (shinkansen) to Tadanoumi Port, where you catch the ferry to the island * Remember to buy pellets at the cafe at Tadano-umi port! They don't sell pellets on the island. But also hold off on buying souvenirs at the cafe since there are more/better ones at the Island hotel shop. * I bought 4 packs and ran out. The rabbits are especially hungry at dawn and twilight. * The island is pretty small so I opted for walking rather than biking. Finished walking in half a day. * The poison gas museum is just 2 rooms and everything is in Japanese so it wasn't a big part of my trip * Overall: coming to rabbit island has been a dream of mine since I was very young since I love bunnies and owned bunnies. I'm glad I came but I met some activists(?) on the island who exposed me to issues such as how none of the money generated from tourists goes towards the rabbits' care (there were several rabbits who looked in need of vet care). The rabbit population is also noticeably smaller than Youtube videos from 10 years ago show. * **Hotel:** Kyukamura Ohkunoshima * Included a breakfast and dinner buffet, and two onsens * Paid out of pocket * Honestly one of the friendliest accommodations I've stayed at. The staff is very diverse and love engaging guests in conversation. * The hotel gift shop also has great souvenirs * There's also a cafe attached to the hotel. I didn't eat there but a lot of day-trippers did. * The hotel also has a \"umi hotaru show\" at night, which was pretty cool **Day 10: Fukuoka** * **Attractions:** * Tochoji Temple * Kushida Shrine * Sumiyoshi Shrine * Walked around Canal City and Tenjin Underground * Had Hakata ramen for dinner at a yatai stand * **Hotel:** APA Hotel Hakata Gion Ekimae * Very convenient location. Paid out of pocket. The room was much larger than the APA hotel I stayed at in Tokyo. **Day 11: Kamishikimi Kumanoimasu Shrine, Amano Iwato Shrine &amp; Takachiho Gorge** * OK so this was the part of my trip that I had the hardest time planning. These locations are technically in Kumamoto Prefecture and are pretty much inaccessible unless you have a car. There is a bus that goes to Takachiho, but the other 2 places can only be accessed by private vehicle. * I ended up booking a tour through Klook: * The bus picked us up at the Lawson outside Hakata Stn. and I thought it was a pretty good tour overall. * The guide was super knowledgeable about the local specialties in each area we went to Ex. which souvenirs to buy, and which shops have lower prices. He also gave the tour in both English and Chinese, and also spoke perfect Japanese. * The tour felt a little bit rushed at the first two stops (Kamishikimi and Amanoiwato) but looking back, I think the time allotted was enough. * **Attractions:** * Kamishikimi Kumanoimasu Shrine - the Demon Slayer Shrine! * Really cool to look at but there's not much else in the area. We climbed up to the top of the mountain; there are lots of stairs. * Inspired *Hotarubi no Mori e* * Amano Iwato Shrine - cave where goddess Amaterasu hid herself * I felt like we could have spent more time here: there's a main shrine, followed by a short hike, then a bunch of cafes, another short hike, and then the cave. There was a LOT to explore. * The cave was really cool and the mango-rich milk ice cream at a cafe was really good. The guide also recommended eating \"jitori\" (happy fried chicken) and the local onigiri. * The guide said we should buy *umeshu* (plum wine) from the shops as it was cheaper than buying it in Takachiho. Apparently Kumamoto makes the number one umeshu in all of Japan! * Takachiho Gorge - highlight of the tour! * The gorge is absolutely beautiful! I planned ahead and reserved a boat in advance. I was determined to get a boating slot and pretty much refreshed the website every day around 4 weeks in advance. I was the only one in the tour group to have a boat reservation and I think the view from the water up at the gorge was phenomenal - definitely recommend! * The guide also provided commentary on Mount Aso when we passed by it * Had dinner back at Hakata Station after we got back **Day 12: Nanzoin Temple &amp; Fukuoka City** * **Attractions:** * Nanzoin - it was under construction when I went so unfortunately, there were boards up blocking most of the laying Buddha's body. You can only get up close to and touch the feet. You might've seen instagram reels of people going up to the head but it was completely cut off when I went. * NOTE: there's a dresscode at the temple. All men and women must wear bottoms that end past their knees or else they're not allowed to enter. I just skirted pass the dress code but I did see the temple employees give others shawls to cover their lower bodies. Some tourists in tank tops (both men and women) were also told to cover up their shoulders with shawls. * Went back to Fukuoka and had lunch at Ichiran Ramen's Main Branch * Daimyo District * Alice on Wednesdays - super cool fashion/accessory/souvenir store based on the story * Had a nice walk in Fukuoka to the Fukuoka Castle Ruins, Ohori Park, and Maizuru Park. * Did a bit of shopping back at Hakata Station at Amu Plaza and had dinner there **Day 13: Dazaifu** * **Attractions:** * Dazaifu Tenmangu - So the main shrine was also under construction lol but they erected a temporary shrine that had a greenhouse roof. That was pretty cool * Mozenmachi &amp; Tenjinsama-dori - street of souvenirs, a cool Starbucks, and Ghibli store * Walked to Kamado Shrine (30 min walk) - LOTS of Demon Slayer fans left drawings on the votive tablets there * I had a lot of time left and decided to go to Yanagawa * This was a bit of a let-down tbh: I got there at around 2pm but the canal tours were already closing. I checked on Google but the locals there said that it's not entirely accurate * I had lunch at Ganso Motoyoshiya which was great for unagi * Headed back to Hakata Station and went to the Demon Slayer exhibit they had there **Day 14: Itoshima** * I might've been a bit too ambitious with my plans today but it was very worth it. I wanted to bike through Itoshima and hit all the highlights. I managed to do it but it was very hot and tiring. * **Attractions:** * Station to Totoro no Mori = 11km * Totoro no Mori to London Bus Cafe = 6.4km * London Bus Cafe to Sakurai Shrine = 4.4km * Sakurai Shrine to Sakurai Futamigaura Torii = 2.7km * Back to station = 11km * Total = 35.5km * I was so dead after but this was SO WORTH IT. The beach was so beautiful, I literally gasped when I first saw it. There's really nothing that beats the sight of the torii gates in the water. **Day 15: Kumamoto City** * Started using the Kyushu Rail Pass. Dropped off my luggage at the hotel before heading out * **Attractions:** * Kumamoto Castle * Kato Shrine * Sakura no baba Josaien * Wakuwakuza Kumamoto Castle Museum * Suizenji Jojuen Garden/Park - this was the highlight in my opinion; the garden was really pretty and the koi fish there are...very aggressive lol. They really want food. * Kumamoto ramen! - I had dinner at Akagumi Ramen and really loved how garlicky Kumamoto-style ramen is. * **Hotel:** Nest Hotel Kumamoto * Included breakfast; paid for with Bilt Points; 15 minutes away from Kumamoto Station on the tram. * **Luggage Forwarding:** I was going to Aso the next day and really didn't want to lug my stuff with me, so I forwarded my stuff to Kagoshima. Luggage forwarding was very simple: I just went to the front desk and they helped me fill out the form. Cost me about $17 USD. **Day 16: Mount Aso** * I took the Aso Boy Train (covered by Rail Pass) from Kumamoto Station to Aso Station. It was a good thing I forwarded my luggage because people were FIGHTING for seats on the train. There were no seat reservations and it was very crowded. * Once at Aso Stn, everyone RAN to get on a bus to Asosanjo Terminal. Unfortunately, I couldn't get a seat and was panicking a bit since the next bus came 2 hours later. Luckily, I split a cab with a couple I met and the cab got us to the Terminal in half an hour (the bus took longer). Cost me 1500 yen after splitting with the couple. * You can ask the staff at Aso Station to call a cab for you! * Also pay attention to when the last bus is back to Aso Station. * **Attractions:** * Aso Sanjo Terminal Cafe - great ice cream and can also get souvenirs here * Nakadake Crater * there's a bus from Aso Sanjo to the crater but I recommend walking - the views are amazing and it's only around 30 minutes * Kusasenri - I walked here as well; you go back the way you came from and past Aso Sanjo. Since this is going downhill, the trek was much easier * Horse riding - very fun * Walking around Kusasenri - the horse riding ended at around 4pm and the horses were set free to roam around the plains. It was great to walk around the fields and watch the horses drink, roll around, and just be free. * Shops - some things that the tour guide (from Takachiho) said are must-dos in Aso: * Drink Aso milk - I tried both the milk and the yoghurt drink and both are amazing * Horse meat - there's a guy near the shops who has a small barbecue stand. He sells skewers that look like average ones you'd get at any barbecue but it's horse meat, which is the local specialty in Kumamoto. It was tasty but I definitely had weird feelings about it lol * Buy horse oil - locals use it to scrub their feet; apparently you can't get this oil anywhere else in Japan (or if you get it, it's more cosmetic than medicinal) * Eat Akaushi - the red cows are super expensive (I think it was 5 million yen each?) and you can get different dishes. I had dinner planned at the hotel so I had an akaushi burger from one of the stands. It was very good. * **Hotel:** Hotel Aso no Tsukasa * Breakfast and onsen were included; paid out of pocket for dinner * Paid with Bilt Points * The hotel also had a large gift shop and an outdoor footbath, which was really nice. **Day 17: Kagoshima/Sakurajima** * The Aso Boy train only runs twice a day in one direction, and there wasn't one going back to Kumamoto Station in the morning. Travel to Kagoshima took longer and I got in at around 2pm. My luggage got there before me. * The original plan was to explore Kagoshima city this day, and then spend the next full day at Sakurajima. However, the forecast said it was going to rain and staff at the ferry port said that it was unlikely I'd be able to see much if I went on a rainy day. So I bit the bullet and went to Sakurajima in the afternoon despite the fact that everything (including transportation) closes at around 5pm. I ditched my plans to rent a bike since it didn't seem worth it for 2 hours. * **Attractions:** * Ferry to Sakurajima - comes every 15 minutes * Yogan Nagisa Park Footbath - was amazing to watch the sunset while enjoying the footbath. Also met a clingy cat here. * Yunohira Observatory - amazing view of Sakurajima volcano * Takeaway: I got the day pass to get on and off the tour bus. The bus is really the only way to get to Yunohira observatory (it would be an EXTREMELY uphill bike) and it doesn't go to places like Kurokami Buried Torii. * Magnum Onsen - near Yogan Nagisa Park and you can watch the sunset over the water while bathing * Ate dinner at Yushokutonsai Ichiniisan Tenmonkanten * Checked out Tenmonkan-dori and made a reservation at Kuroya (Kagoshima-style shabu-shabu) for the next day * **Hotel:** Kagoshima Plaza Hotel Tenmonkan * Paid with Bilt Points; no breakfast included **Day 18: Kagoshima City** * Very much a food day lol. It was very rainy and in retrospect, I would've done more indoor activities like going to the aquarium. * Forwarded my luggage to Beppu hotel * **Attractions:** * Brunch at Tontoro Ramne * Ate Shirokuma (Kagoshima shaved ice dessert) at Tanmonkan Mujaki * Dolphins near aquarium (Kagoshima Dolphin Port?) * not intentional, I was on my way to Sengan-en when I saw people standing around the bay. There's a dolphin show twice a day, which was very cool. The dolphins could swim in and out of the pool to the waterway. There were no trainers present * Walked to Sengan-en - this was a mistake lol. First, I love walking and try to walk as much as possible. This was an hour's walk, which usually would be alright, but it was raining cats and dogs. Not my smartest moment * Because of the rain, Sengan-en wasn't that enjoyable and I couldn't see much. * Had dinner at Kuroya * Chose this place since it had all the Kagoshima foods that are recommended: kurobuta shabu-shabu, Satsuma-imo, and Satsuma-shochu. **Day 19: Yufuin/Beppu** * Yufuin was a spontaneous decision: I realized that the train there was covered by the rail pass and through why not. * It was still very rainy but Yufuin was quite pretty in the rain. * **Attractions in Yufuin:** * Walked down Yutsunobo Street * Food highlights: Telato (matcha gelato), Milch (cheese cake) * Went to Ghibli store &amp; bought really nice souvenirs * Looked at the cat and dog shop * Yufuin Floral Village - it was pretty but a bit overrated in my opinion * I took a bus from Yufuin to Beppu (again, super thankful I forwarded my luggage!). The bus was super crowded since everyone was trying to fit themselves and their luggage on. * **Attractions in Beppu:** * Takegawara Onsen - I did the sand bath which was very fun! The staff will take a photo for you if you'd like. The regular onsen was also VERY hot which personally, I was a big fan of. The manager was a really friendly guy and really tried to get to know his foreign guests. I got to speak a lot of Japanese with him * **Hotel:** Nishitetsu Resort Inn, Beppu * Breakfast included, paid for with Bilt points * I was choosing between this and Daiichi Hotel (both covered by Bilt) and went with this one since there were more reviews and the onsen looked great. However, it was a bit far from Beppu Station, much longer than the advertised 10 minute walk, in the rain and with luggage. Daiichi on the other hand was right next to the station. * The onsen was super nice though! There was an indoor and outdoor pool. **Day 20: Beppu** * **Attractions:** * Hells of Beppu Tour * I got up early and did all the 7 hells. Highly recommend doing this tour, it was really fun, there are lots of footbaths, and each hell had fun attractions * Did the Kannawa District Hells in the morning before lunch * Lunch at Jigokumushikobo Kannawa * I read online that there is a wait for this restaurant so I got there early, around 11:30 and only waited 5 minutes. As long as you avoid the lunch rush, it should be a short wait. I cooked my own food here, which was cool. * After lunch, I took the bus to the Shibaseki District Hells * Had dinner at Toyotsune (toriiten) * Relaxed at onsen at hotel **Day 21: Return to Tokyo** * Flew back to Tokyo from Oita Airport * **Hotel:** Tokyo Business Hotel * a 15 minute walk from Shinjuku Station, paid out of pocket, breakfast included * Actually was very impressed by this hotel: the rooms were large and spacious and there was even an onsen! * Did some shopping at Lumine Shinjuku * Ate dinner at Ikkakuya (VERY good ramen) **Day 22: Asakusa - hang out with friends** **Day 23: Shibuya &amp; Harajuku** * This was a last-minute shopping/walk down memory lane day. I went directly from my hotel to Harajuku, then walked to Shibuya * **Harajuku Attractions:** * Breakfast at Island Vintage Coffee Omotesando - really yummy acai bowl * Kiddland Harajuku - fun character goods store * Tokyu Plaza Omotesando - I didn't buy anything, just wanted to ride the elevator lol * Laforet Harajuku * **Shibuya Attractions:** * Shibuya 109 - fashion shopping, very girly stores * Shibuya Hikarie - shopping * Lunch at Maguro to Shari - real hole in the wall donburi place * Shibuya Scramble Square - shopping * Shibuya LOFT - souvenirs * MEGA Donqujote - needed a new suitcase * Ate dinner at Ikkakuya again (back in Shinjuku) So yeah that was my trip! Absolutely loved my time in Japan and cannot wait to go back again. Please let me know if you have any questions and I hope this helps! :)"}
{"id": "0079", "text": "We (my fiance and I) just came back from a three week trip to Japan, and felt like writing a post to summarize my thoughts. Our itinerary ended up like this: Day 1-5: Tokyo. Visited Meiji Shrine, walked around Shibuya/Shinjuku, visited Ginza/Ueno/Akahibara etc, and Koenji. TeamLab Borderless. Day 6: Overnight stay in Matsumoto. Saw the castle, visited the City Museum of Art, bought some local crafts. Day 7-9: Climbed Mt. Yarigatake from Kamikochi. Stayed in the mountain lodges. Day 10: Rest and relaxation at Hirayu Onsen after the hike. Day 11-12: Two days in Takayama. Old Town, ate some amazing Hida beef, went bouldering at the local gym. Day 13-14: Kanazawa. Visited the fish market, Kenroku-en, Kanazawa castle, Museum of Modern Art. Ate a bunch of sushi. Day 15-19: Osaka. Shopping, street food. Osaka castle. Went out with a couple of friends we made at Yarigatake. Had a sick day. Day trip to Nara to see the deer park. Day 20-21: Hiroshima. Visited Miyajima and took a hike up Mt. Misen. Peace Park + Dome Building. Day 22: Return to Kyoto for one day. Saw a couple of shrines/temples, ate food. Day 23: Left Japan from Osaka airport. Positive experiences: 1. The absolute highlight was Mt. Yarigatake. Holy hell what a view, and the mountain hut being a 15 minute climb from the peak meant that you could get up at 05:00 to see the sunrise from the top. One of the best mountain hikes of my life. The first 2-3 hours of the hike on the first day from Kamikochi were pretty uninteresting with a long, flat stroll with way too many other hikers, but once you got away from the Kamikochi area there were far fewer people around, and the first lodge had an onsen which was unexpected and amazing. The second day climbing the actual mountain range was amazing, and we did a detour to do some adjacent peaks on the way to Yarigatake. I'd say it's perfectly hikeable for anyone with an average level of fitness. The downside of climbing Yarigatake in late September was that we had to pack accordingly, and carrying around hardshell jackets, hiking boots, fleece jackets, silk liners etc for the rest of our trip was very cumbersome. In the end we didn't need warm clothing but we were lucky with the weather (no wind or rain). If you're climbing in the summer months you won't need to pack as extensively. 2. Tokyo was great, and much quieter and cleaner than I expected. The Meiji Shrine was not at all as overcrowded as I'd thought it would be. I can't understand what the fuss is about Shibuya Crossing though, it felt like a perfectly ordinary, if a bit busy, crosswalk. Koenji was a highlight and if I'd recommend staying there if visiting Tokyo. TeamLab Borderless was overrated, but to be fair we visited on a Friday evening so the immense crowd might have ruined our experience a bit. Unless you're interested in some good photo-ops, I'd say skip it, or at least plan your visit outside of peak hours. 3: Miyajima was beautiful, and I recommend climbing Mt. Misen so that you are at the top around sunset, as you'll get a great view from the top and also get a nighttime view of Itsukushima Jinja with a stunning reflection from the water. You'll need light on the way down, though! 4. Japan was much less complicated to travel around than I thought. With an IC Card, eSim and Google Maps getting around was a breeze. I'd heard some people say that you have to plan everything and have bookings weeks to months in advance, but that wasn't the case. When we landed in Tokyo we had booked the first four nights, and the mountain lodge, and that was it. For the rest of the trip we booked our hotel 1-2 days before, and stayed longer/shorter some areas as we felt like it. Sometimes we shipped our luggage to our next hotel, but even when we didn't we were several times able to meet up at the train station and book a Shinkansen with extra bag space that left in 15-30 minutes. We may have just been lucky, though. Now some negative opinions/experiences: 1. When going from city to city, we quickly got sightseeing fatigue. In Tokyo and Matsumoto, we were excited to see all the temples, shrines, parks and castles, but after a few cities things just felt... Too similar. I can't help but be a little disappointed that almost every castle in Japan is a reconstruction, and Kanazawa Castle was a real letdown as we paid to enter the castle only to realize that most of the exhibition is just a display of the renovation efforts. Kenroku-en was also disappointing, but thats probably because we visited in late September. We didn't bother going inside Osaka castle as we read that it was pretty much the same as Kanazawa. The absolute low-point was taking a day trip to Kyoto. We were at the end of our vacation and were already feeling tired of Old Towns, Castles and Temples, only to arrive in the arguably most touristy area in all of Japan. In the end, we only visited for 5-6 hours before we called it quits, bought snacks and chilled at the hotel and took an early night. In hindsight we would have skipped at least one of the cities (maybe Kanazawa) and found a calmer region with a smaller city centre and easier hiking opportunities to stay for 2-3 days just to relax, and feel more excited to go sightseeing again. Perhaps Noto Peninsula would have been a good idea? This is just a personal preference though, as we are definitely more nature lovers than metropolitans. 2. Food: While most of the food we ate in Japan was amazing (shout-out to Udon Noodles and Umeshu), it is definitely possible to get bad and/or bland food in Japan. I'd be very careful to trust Google Reviews as some restaurants have artificially inflated ratings (e.g. free dessert if you give 5 stars). Japanese people use Tabelog which is more reliable but I'd still just recommend winging it and take the L if you had a bad meal (which is still unlikely). Restaurants that have local customers is usually a good idea. If there is one advice I'd give to people visiting Japan, it's this: Skip Japanese breakfast. I can understand much about Japanese culture, but starting your day with soup, fermented/pickled vegetables, slimy fermented beans and then a piece of grilled mackerel with rice is incomprehensible. Either don't have breakfast at all or eat Western-styled breakfast. We are Norwegians though, and breakfast is a big deal for us. 3. I love Japanese culture and Japan is a calm, safe and comfortable place to visit. It is, however, a culture with some strange contradictions. I get the impression that it's important to act properly and not do anything that's viewed as obscene/rude. While nobody reacted negatively when I kissed my girlfriend or if she *gasp* used a toothpick in public, I've heard that both things could be frowned upon, among many other things. At the same time that this \"proper and well-behaved Japan\" is showed, when walking around the bigger Japanese cities it is brimming with Love Hotels, Erotic Spa Treatments (did someone say testicle massage?) and girls in skimpy outfits advertising their prices (which I understand is actually just for talking with them, but you get the drift). The contrast is startling. Also, in the land of extreme politeness, I can count on one hand the amount of times I saw someone give up his or her seat on the metro/train to an elderly person. 4: Nightlife: We didn't really get a hang of it. In Kanazawa we randomly stumbled upon a beer festival at 6:30 PM, and were excited to spend the evening there drinking good beer and eating street food, only to realize that all the stalls close at... 7 PM. On a Saturday. This seemed to be a general theme where the night life seemed to die out at around 7-8 PM, and the streets emptied (Shinjuku and Namba were obvious exceptions). Do people go home or do they all go to the bars behind closed doors with no windows? Out of fear of ending up somewhere shady, we didn't enter any of these bars. Final thoughts: We had an amazing time, but remember to relax while you're there. It's a vacation, after all. If you're feeling fatigued and/or overwhelmed by all the things you want to/should do, just take a break for half a day or a day and recharge your batteries and enjoy reading a book in one of the many parks and cafs."}
{"id": "0080", "text": "Introduction- Couple 29, 32. Month of visit- Later half of September. Highlights 1. Sunset from Inamuragasaki Park (Kamakura) right after an Onsen with the backdrop of Mount Fuji 2. Heian Garden in Kyoto. Most zen garden we found in Japan. 3. Giant Buddha in the hill backdrop in Kamakura. 4. Giant Buddha in Nara. You can't take your eyes off from the mystical majesty of the statue. 5. Kinkauji temple Kyoto 6. Harry Potter ride in USJ. Not a Harry Potter fan, 90 minutes of waiting time, still that ride somehow makes up for the ticket price for USJ. Lowlights 1. Himeji castle- We went in September. In the absence of cherry blossom or autumn foliage, we didn't get a wow feeling looking at just the castle. 2. Panda at Ueno park, Tokyo- The waiting time was 90 mins+ and we just got to see the panda for one minute. Didn't justify all the effort. General Tips 1. JR west Kansai pass is a great deal if you plan on including Himeji, Miyajima, Hiroshima in your trip. Else, JR pass can be skipped altogether after their price hike. 2. IC/Suica card is mandatory for seamless travel across JR/subway lines. Keep in mind card issued from JR West (Osaka/Kyoto) region can not be refunded in JR East (Tokyo) and vice versa 3. Google Maps+ Navitime Japan were our only two navigator apps for the entirety of our trip. Navitime sometimes is better for JR/subway navigation 4. Supermarkets are cheaper than 7/11, Lawson and Family Mart. However the trio are much easier to find than having to look for a supermarket. Onigiri (rice ready to eat food) and bento box were a total savior and pretty affordable (3-5$ meals) 5. Keep an eye on shrines/places closing timings in evening beforehand. 6. Carry a small plastic bag in your bag. Else, most vending machines have a trash can around it. 7. Not a lot of vegetarian/vegan options. Most restaurants have menu outside so you can browse as you explore the streets. 8. Akihabara in Tokyo is THE place to be if you're an anime/superhero/figurine fan or want to buy a tech product or an adult toy. 9. We found Don Quijoto to be a bit overrated in terms of souvenirs. Their prices are OK and the products there can be found in any other souvenir store too. (Let me know if we are missing something basic here) 10. Tokyo skyline can be watched for free at the observatory at Tokyo Metropolitan Government Building. Plus, they have light and sound shows everyday at 7pm, 8pm, 9pm etc outside the building. On weekends, they have Godzilla and Pacman shows as well. We visited on a Weeknd and ended up watching all three. Pacman show was pretty cool in terms of music. 11. Surprisingly, we really liked the small counter in Tokyo Metropolitan Government Building south observatory in terms of souvenirs. We found good quality Kokeshi dolls at 3080 Yen, good quality fridge magnets at 600Yen. 12. Japanese gardens should form big part of anyone's itinerary who's into nature. They have this indescribable zen, gratefulness vibe to them that's hard to explain. 13. Our visit's first two days (18th and 19th September) were outright bad in terms of humidity. We were lucky in the remaining part of trip where weather was perfect (light drizzle, breezy). To be safe, skip September altogether and visit in October if you're planning to visit in a less crowded season. Itinerary Day 1- Arrive at Kansai Osaka airport at 5pm. Checked in Osaka hotel. Headed to Dotonbari in evening. Tip- Dotonbari calls for a visit in evening but you should be OK giving it not more than couple of hours if you've got other things in schedule. Day 2- USJ. Did not take the express pass. Reached at 7 am, waiting time in bracket. Did Super Nintendo World (0 mins) , Jurrasic Park (60 mins), Harry Potter(90 mins), Jaws (30 mins), Hollywood backdrop (50 mins), Minion (30mins). Didn't like Minions at all, Jaws was fine with kids. Rest all are great rides and we liked them overall. Harry Potter of course takes the cake. Tip- If you're not taking express pass, 7am entry allows one to take the first ride without waiting time and that's a big relief. Day 3- Day trip-Shinkansen. Osaka to Himeji, Miyajima and Hiroshima. Himeji was fine. We LOVED Koko-en gardens. Miyajima ferry breeze and the Torry gates were a good visit and Hiroshima is a moving experience overall. Tip- Himeji, Miyajima and Hiroshima seems like a lot but is doable if you give your day an early start. Day 4- Nara. Deer Park, Todai-Ji and random walks in the neighborhood away from the crowds. Visited Fushima Inari at night. Tip- Fushima Inari is one of the most crowded places in Kyoto. To beat the crowds, an early morning or late evening are the possible slots. If pictures aren't important to you, choose late evening/night coz Inari doesn't look vibrant at night. If having couple of decent vibrant pictures in front of 1000 tori gates appeal to you, choose early morning slot. Day 5- Kyoto. Started in Arashiyama (Bamboo groves , tenryu-ji and stroll across the river bank). Kinkauji and Daikakuji in afternoon. Went to imperial gardens for the evening Tip- Again, start early for a near solitary experience at Bamboo groves. Day 6- Kyoto. Higashiyama (Kiyomizu dera to Hokan ji via ninenzaka). Heian Gardens in afternoon, walked philospher's path in evening spending night in Gion Tip- Heian Garden is our top recommendation for Kyoto. Day 7- Osaka to Tokyo flight - central tokyo - Teamlabs planet Imperial Garden were closed for the day when we visited, so leisurely walked in closeby open gardens. Tip- Teamlabs Planet tickets need to be booked early and the queues are shorter post 6pm. Day 8- Tokyo. Morning prayers at Senso-ji. Explored Ueno Park, Akihabara and Shibuya for rest of the day Tip- Ueno Zoo is not the best of zoos out there. If you're into Pandas, go at opening time as the lines closes as early as 11:30 am. Day 9- Day trip Fujikawaguchiko. Fujisan (as Mt Fuji called respectfully in Japan) remained shy throughout the day and we kept waiting. Liked the chill, slow vibe of the town. Visited Oishi park at the end Tip- Bike around the town at lesiurely pace along the lake, it's pretty nice. Day 10- Day trip Kamakura and Yokohama. Visited Great Buddha and Hasenji temple. Both highly recommended. At night, stopped at Yokohoma, one station way is Minatomirai to watch the skyline. It's pretty cool. Ended up doing the Ferris wheel ride for 1000Yen each. It was nice overall to look at the skyline from above. Tip- Seafacing onsen (1500 Yen) at Inamuragasaki and the point for sunset overseeing Mt. Fuji isn't that popular, we serendipitously stumbled upon at it and it is our biggest highlight of the trip. Day 11- Leisurely slow day at Tokyo. Visited Shinjuku National Park. Liked that there were hundreds of people in the park just lazying around beautiful gardens. Tip- Tokyo Metropolitan Government Building at night is good (free) way to see Tokyo skyline Day 12- Day trip- Nikko. Kegon fall was the highlight. Okunikko area is recommended. Tip - Spend a night in Nikko to absorb the vibe. Day 13- Return flight This sub was the biggest help in planning for our trip, just wanted to add a post to contribute to the community. Happy to answer your questions!"}
{"id": "0081", "text": "* This is a continuation post from Part 1 here, Part 2 here and Part 3 here (Kobe/Himeji, Osaka, Kyoto, Nara and Mie) * Refer to link for a map covering Day 25 \\~ 31 here. * This post covers from Osaka to Kanazawa Central, day trip to Shirakawago to Osaka and a dive into Noto Peninsula (Nanao, Wakura Onsen, and everything else on the peninsula), capping with a domestic flight out to Tokyo. * This trip occurred during Mid-November to Mid-December (autumn season). **- NOTE: although it is already more than half a year since the earthquake, I do note that as of writing, a good percentage of the facilities, lodging and roads at Wakura Onsen and Noto Peninsula are in reconstruction. Please verify that those facilities are reopened ahead of time if you do intend to stop by here.** **Lastly, do visit Ishikawa if schedule permits its a lovely prefecture!** **Day 25 Kanazawa Central, Yuwaku Onsen, Ishikawa Prefectural Library (Ishikawa)** Took the first train out from Osaka at 0630 to Kanazawa via the limited express *Thunderbird* for a 3 hours ride. I would note that at this early timing, the train shops that sell bentos are NOT OPEN this early so do get something to bite on from Lawsons or a 7-11. Additionally, as of March 2024 *Thunderbird* ends at Fukui and youll need to transit via Shinkansen over to Kanazawa instead (which is sort of a bummer since youll need to make a train transfer, but presumably itll be faster overall). Grabbed the 1-day bus pass from the tourist centre, deposited my luggage at the hotel and started exploring via bus. The day was split into three parts: - Morning/early noon at Higashichaya District. The gold leaf museum was closed when I visited, however I enjoyed strolling along Higashichaya and along the Asano River. There is numerous comparisons between it and Kyoto, and I generally agree that its an apt comparison (traditional wooden structures etc etc) sans the crowd. Enjoyed a nice bowl of seasonal crab porridge at a cool 3k yen at a relatively highly rated restaurant named *Ushinoya*. Crossing the river, I stopped by the Kanazawa Phonograph Musuem which was a small but quaint museum. Spent just under an hour here looking at old models. - A visit to Yuwaku Onsen on the outskirts in the afternoon. Access to Yuwaku Onsen via bus is limited to once every 1-2 hours. Wanted to explore for primarily anime reasons (*Hanasaku Iroha**)* but I enjoyed soaking in the foot bath (bring your towel or buy one from the nearby shop) and walking around the town. One interesting fact is that this town organizes a festival every October which first originated from the anime itself. - A trip to the Ishikawa Prefectural Library in the evening. Not a typical tourist hotspot one would expect, but the architecture is simply stunning, with heavy usage of wood (according to their website its almost 80% of the entire structure). It exudes that feeling of vibrancy and warmth which most libraries do not have (in general, libraries are usually stale and mute, at least for me). Additionally, I do like how the designers integrate study spaces within the library. I spent about 2 hours till closing relaxing at the library. Worth a visit, if you are into architecture. The hotel for the next 3 nights was the *Hotel Forza Kanazawa*, which was directly opposite Omicho Market, and several bus stops away from the main shopping district *Korinbo*. The hotel was value for money with a pretty spacious room for one, and comes with some neat features like a shoe dryer (which will come in handy in the coming days). Room rates was about $70USD a day which was pretty affordable and well worth the room quality/space. **Day 26 Shirakawago (Gifu), Kanazawa Central (Ishikawa)** Morning half day-trip to Shirakawago via highway bus, followed by a continuation of Kanazawa exploration in the afternoon. Reserved a return ticket for the Shirakawago express bus via phone for free (with help from a friend) as I had the Takayama-Hokuriku Area tourist pass \\[they do get sold out so reserve ahead of time if possible. The 0810 bus I took was full\\]. Took about 1.5 hours from Kanazawa to Shirakawago. I spent 2 hours here before having to catch the return bus back to Kanazawa. It was raining rather heavily so the view wasnt ideal, though it does have that misting effect so thats sort of cool (in a Silent Hill way). The main things I managed to squeeze in the \\~2 hours were - Hiking up to the Shiroyama Tenshukaku Observation Deck - Enter one of the guest houses - Look at the three houses The (short) hike to the observatory is probably the most time consuming activity (and also physically demanding) with a bit of incline so be forewarned if you intend to do so (at least 30 minutes at a fast pace, double that if you want to take things easy). I contend that you should cater for 3\\~4 hours here to do things at a more comfortable clip. And do bring a raincoat for the unexpected autumn rain - its more useful than an umbrella. The tourist center do sell raincoats if you accidentally missed it out (which I did). Headed back to Kanazawa by 1300, had Kanazawa Go-Go curry (900 yen for such a large portion), taking a break at the hotel to dry off myself (the shoe dryer was a godsend) before proceeding to explore more of Kanazawa, this time round on the centre part i.e. - Omicho Market. I feel that Omicho was a better representation of how markets in Japan are like, without the intense crowd levels. On reflection, I feel that visiting almost any other markets in Japan would be a better experience then visiting Tsukiji if one is able to explore outside of Tokyo. Prices were also generally cheaper/less marked-up compared to Tsukiji as well. Had a nice bowl of seafood don for just 1.5k yen. - Kanazawa Castle. Its a reconstructed castle, but nevertheless a nice detour if you have the time to spare enroute to Kenrokuen, with some history and details on the reconstruction methods used to reconstruct the castle. - Kenrokuen. Personally my attraction of choice, I had a good time just strolling in the garden and enjoying the scenery. The entire environment was just serene and evokes a sense of calm. While it wasnt snowing yet, they had already started setting up the tsukuba (those iconic wooden structures supporting the trees during snowfall). - 21^(st) Century Museum of Contemporary Arts. I personally had a good time exploring the exhibits (which as the name suggest, has a more modern lean to it). My personal favourites were the swimming pool exhibit, this exhibit on machine learning, as well as a Twitter check mark vending machine, with a 1/100 chance of it dispensing a gold-leaf tick symbol (pretty tongue-in-cheek) **Day 27- Nanao, Kanazawa Central (Ishikawa)** This was an unplanned day, but I decided to head over to Nanao for some anime pilgrimage (for an anime named Insomniacs After School*)*, which was an hour away from Kanazawa via local rail. I was already planning to come here the next day, but I realized I didnt had enough time so I decided to devote extra time here. Renting a local electric assist bike for 1k yen at the tourism centre, I explored various spots around Nanao related to the anime. Some spots of interest (that arent just anime related only) are as follow: - Hanayomenoren Museum. A small museum featuring bridal curtains and its importance for marriages in the past. - Nanao Castle Ruins. Another anime-related hotspot, the cycle up is relatively easy with an e-bike, but probably better done with a car. The reward for cycling up the mountain is a picturesque view of the city facing the sea. - Roadside Station Noto Shokusai Market ( ). While small, the food offerings were pretty good and affordable (the same don I had in Kanazawa was about 100-200 yen cheaper here). - Had some fluffy pancake and coffee from a caf that was featured in the manga, tasted divine (*Chuoh Saroh,* ). Owner was also a big fan of the anime. Returning to Kanazawa at night, I explored the remaining places that I have yet to do so, namely Nagamachi District and Oyama Shrine. I should mention that at night, both venues are already closed, but you can enter and view the grounds. **Day 28- Wakura Onsen, Noto Peninsula (Ishikawa)** One neat feature offered by the Ishikawa tourism centre is that they offer same-day luggage forwarding services to any places within Ishikawa for a nominal fee (\\~900 yen) as long as you pass it to them by the cut-off timing. Availing myself with that service, I boarded the final sightseeing train of the trip, the Hanayomenoren \\*(\\*related to the museum visited yesterday). The train interior is coated with gold leaf and is tastefully decorated, decorated with numerous bridal curtains. Was an enjoyable 1.5 hour train ride over to Nanao. I then proceeded to do some train spotting related to anime and visited some anime hotspots at Nishigishi Station before retiring at an onsen ryokan named Tadaya ( ) for the next two nights. Special mention for the room which was very large for a single occupant, with a great view of the Nanao Bay in the morning. Dinner was outstanding with a printed-out English menu spelling out what I was offered, with some uncommon cuisine such as shirako/cod milt. I thoroughly enjoyed the meal. Regrettably, as of writing, the ryokan has yet to reopen. One night (with dinner and breakfast) costed about 30k yen for one person. **Day 29 Wakura Onsen, Noto Peninsula (Ishikawa)** Had a friend who helped to drive me around Noto Peninsula. This sector should be done with a car as public transport is almost non-existent, with bus services/frequencies very limited. Some interesting visiting spots are as follow: - *Noto Milk* a local shop specializing in milk produce. The milk ice cream is worth the try if you come here. - Wakura Onsen Festival Halls (). A large museum/hall showing the local festival that they celebrate annually (they had this larger-than-life floats and a literal fire festival). Also featured in the anime incidentally. - Mawaki Site. Allegedly the birthplace of the *jomon* people \\[prehistoric people\\], it sorta feels like Stonehenge for lack of a better comparison, except that its made of wood instead of stone. There is also a nearby museum but we didnt had the time for it - Mitsuke Island (). An island that is shaped like a battleship, and looks pretty imposing when you are near it. You could cross via some rocks to get close to it, though i would mention that it is not an easy task to do so. Regrettably, the island was badly damaged during the earthquake in January, and is no longer of the same size/stature that it once was. - Shiroyone Senmaida Rice Terraces () . Labelled by the UN as a Globally Important Agricultural Heritage System, the view overfacing the sea was great, though we were a bit too early to witness the night illumination (we had to leave early around 1700). The sea breeze can be a bit strong so expect a bit of a chill as you head downwards towards the sea. On reflection, in order to explore the peninsula more thoroughly, I feel that at least 2\\~2.5 days is necessary (to explore other parts such as Wajima (which is also badly affected by the earthquake). Retired at the ryokan for the night. **Day 30 Noto Satoyama Airport Haneda Airport, Akihabara (Tokyo)** Had yet another great breakfast in the ryokan before checking out and heading towards the nearest domestic airport (Noto Satoyama Airport). A neat service provided by the local airport to residents/tourists on Noto Peninsula is a dedicated taxi service from the ryokan to the local airport at a flat fee of 1500 yen. Together with the flight ticket at 10k yen, it was considerably cheaper and faster to take a domestic flight to Haneda instead of taking the Shinkansen via Kanazawa (was about 15\\~16k yen then for 4\\~4.5 hours of train compared to 1h of flight at 11.5k yen). After arriving in Tokyo just before noon, I spent the rest of the day doing some shopping at Ginza (Yamaha, Tokyu Hands, Itoya, etc), checking out Tokyo Station and spent the remainder of my time at Akihabara looking for good deals and some other vtuber stuffs. Your mileage may vary depending on interests (if you like shopping, you should cater for more time). The final hotel for the next 5-6 days was the *Blossom Hibiya*, located near Shimbashi. Initially, I thought it was slightly out of the way compared to hotels at Ginza or Shinjuku, but as days went by I liked the venue more because it was more quieter and less hectic compared to those locations, with ample affordable dining options just a block away and JR/metro mere minutes walk away. The hotel room itself was not bad, with a pretty large comfortable bed, and a great view of the city (I could even see the Skytree from the hotel room!). Also comes with an iPad which allows you to control the room lighting and even check the washing machine availability. All in all, a pretty good but slightly expensive hotel - would recommend if you dont mind the hole in your wallet. Thanks for reading. Im honestly not sure if there is interest in my Tokyo/Chiba leg so this may be the last post (theres plenty of Tokyo trip reports and theyre mainly of good quality so I'm not sure if my contribution is worth much). Hope you enjoyed reading it! In the event that I don't continue on the Tokyo/Chiba post, I would note that the all-in expenditure for the entire 36 days was approximately $13k USD (inclusive of a business flight ticket upgrade); with some cost optimization I believe the trip cost can go down to $10k USD."}
{"id": "0082", "text": "This will be a bit long at the beginning as it has some extra details - feel free to skip the first few days if you care more about the logistics/non-heritage stuff we did. We did get the 21 day JR pass (math said we'd get a little extra value so we wanted to see how well it did with the new pricing) and it ended up being worth it, but it requires a LOT of travel, so I'd still probably not recommend it unless you're moving around a lot on Shinkansen. My wife and I are both Yonsei - 4th Generation Japanese Americans - and have always wanted to dig further into our heritage in Japan, so the main focus of the Honeymoon to Japan was to visit the village locations that each of our great grandparents were born in, and if possible, find a grave or something. Unfortunately, we didn't get all of our Koseki in time for that, but we did get a big surprise with my paternal line (detailed below). Note - Because we're 4th gen (from California) we don't have much Japanese speaking or as much information about our family history due to WW2, so most of our digging came through old documents and asking any surviving Nisei what we could! **Day 1 - July 31st/August 1st - Arrival and Home Base Hotel** Depart SFO to HND on JAL 1. Arrive at HND in the early afternoon, picked up a 21 day JR pass and headed to our hotel in Sumida. Checked in to the hotel in Sumida- this would be our \"Home\" in Tokyo and where we would store our big luggage when it was not in use. The check out date was August 23rd. Got Dinner at our favorite Udon shop in Tokyo (Taniya) and then passed out at the hotel. **Day 2 - August 2nd - Treats, Temples, Tokyo Dome** Explored a confectionary shop in Setagaya my wife had found online, visited a few parks and shrines/temples in the area and then headed to Tokyo Dome City. At Tokyo Dome, we visited the Baseball hall of fame, got dinner, and then watched the Giants vs Swallows. After game finished, went back to Sumida, picked up some snacks at 7/11 and packed our carry on bags for the trip to Kochi Prefecture. **Day 3 - August 3rd - Arrive in Kochi and Meet Locals/Hidaka Village** *Kochi is where my paternal line is from, and thus my family name and family crest (which we did not know). When doing my ancestry research, I found that the original village was no longer around, as it merged with 2 others some time in the 1950s due to shrinking population. Luckily for me - the newly merged village had a small Tourism Board, and when I reached out using bad google translate, the person running it happened to know English, and said they would be more than happy to help me find out where my family lived, and if they could, find the gravestone of my ancestors!* We woke up early Tokyo so we could make sure we were packed and ready for an early afternoon flight from Haneda to Kochi Ryoma airport. Flew into Kochi, picked up a rental car and checked in to a hotel in Kochi City to use as home base while we were in Kochi (I could not find any hotels in the family village, but was told later they have some, but they don't have an online presence, so next time I'll just use my contacts there!). When we arrived, I messaged the tourism board on Line to let them know we were in town and excited to meet them the next day for some exploring around the area. They invited me to a small \"Izakaya\" sort of gathering in the village that night, so my wife and I drove down, ate at a local restaurant using the tiny bits of Japanese we know, and met up with my contact at the tourism board. It was a VERY small location that looks like it is rented out on occasion for small get togethers like this one, but I got to meet the person I had been communicating with, his friends, and his friends' kids. We chatted a bit (with the contact doing his best to help translate, but also with some of the locals using small bits of english and us using small bits of Japanese), ate, drank, and set off some fireworks and played with some bubbles. One of the people also gifted us a pair of Naruko hand clappers with our names in Katakana, the wedding date, and art/kanji to wish us a happy marriage. Incredibly fun and kind folks, and one of my favorite nights of the entire trip. After hanging out with them for a few hours, we headed back to Kochi City with plans to meet back up for a caving expedition - The first full day in Kochi was to explore the area and learn about it. **Day 4 - August 4th - Learning about Hidaka and watching minor league baseball** We woke up early and met up at the Tourism Board office at 8am to explore a local cave (Saruda Cave), a flood abatement pond area with a LOT of Dragonflies (got to see the rare Oni Dragonfly alongside a bunch of others), and then took a tour on the Niyodo river for lunch. All of these were incredibly fun, and it was pretty cool to imagine that my Great Grandparents may have explored the cave for fun as a kid, or swam in the river to cool off on the warm summer days. After our lunch on the river (they have a boat that explains some local history and a shop that sells bento to eat on the boat), we headed back into Kochi City for baseball. We got back to the hotel to change out of our caving clothes and into some lighter clothes AND our Fighting Dogs Jerseys to support the local team! Got to enjoy a Kochi win and then headed to the local Round 1 to play some DDR and a few other arcade games. Went to sleep early so we could be ready for a full day of family history on the 5th. **Day 5 - August 5th - Learning about my family and Hidaka** Woke up early again to meet up at the Tourism Board office at 8am. From there we caravaned in our cars to the Okina area of Hidaka where my ancestors apparently originally lived. They had a small meeting center there where I got to visit people currently living IN the Okina area, and they showed me the land records dating back to the 1920s or so. Unfortunately my family had apparently moved out of Okina before the 1920s, so while the Koseki had their address, the land records indicated that a separate family had bought and worked on the land afterwards. They still were able to track down the actual locations of the homes, however, so we hiked up the hills to see the 1st original dwelling that was on record, and I took a photo next to the well that would have been used by my family for water. The 2nd dwelling had been destroyed in a mudslide sometime in the past, so the building had been rebuilt, but we still hiked up there too and visited the area. Around this time, the group showed me some photos of them going through the forest just outside town and up into the mountains searching for my family's old gravestones, and they told me that the gravestones USED to be right outside the 1st and 2nd dwellings, but had been moved around 10 years ago by the descendants of my great grandfather's brother, and they were excited to meet me and show me the current location of the graves later that afternoon/evening! Until then, however, we had a few more things to do in Hidaka. Next up was the local Temple. The priest? (Not sure the title used) had helped with determining the correct temple/shrines my family would have utilized, so I was shown how to pray/pay respects to the souls of my family that had come before. He also provided me with 5 sticks of incense for us to burn at the actual gravesite (that was located in Kochi City). After all of the heavier emotional stuff, we had a little break for Omu Raisu (the local specialty in Hidaka) and after learning that my hometown in California had a lot of Tomato farming too, they showed me to their main greenhouses and tomato/produce factory. It was pretty fun to see, as I've spent a LOT of time on my cousins' tomato farms back in the states when I was younger, and it was fun to see the differences (mainly their greenhouse use for their specialized Tomato stuff vs my US family just having giant tracts of land uncovered for the tomatoes. Also - different varieties of tomatoes too due to the specific needs of one vs the other.) When we finished with all the produce related activities, including a stop to buy produce as tribute for the ancestors, we caravaned again to Kochi City (the exact location I saved on my phone, but I can't remember the area off the top of my head, and it's not too important for the internet to know) where we met up with an older gentleman and his two sons. They ran over to our car, gave us ice cream and ice cold bottles of tea and said \"follow us\" and jumped into their cars to show us the gravesite (which was maybe 1 km away from their house I think). I was able to \"meet\" my ancestors. There were a good chunk of graves, and I was shown the different stones for each relative, as well as the Family Crest. We paid our respects/prayed, and talked a bit at the gravesite, eventually moving to a local cafe to continue the conversation for a few more hours. Exchanged contact information and helped update each other's family trees! Once we were all done, and lots of bowing and gift exchanging later, my wife and I finally got back to our Kochi hotel and rested. That was the end of our Kochi stuff for the most part, and we would be leaving to Osaka (area) the next day. **Day 6 - August 6th - Udon and heading to Koshien** Our favorite food is Udon, and we had a mission to eat Udon on every island of Japan this trip for fun. We already had some at the first restaurant in Kochi, but we don't know how often we'll be able to visit Japan, so we wanted to go back to the Udon School in Takamatsu that we had visited before. We drove from Kochi City to Takamatsu and attended the Udon making class again. Afterwards, we drove to Kinashi station, where on our 1st trip to take the Udon class we erroneously though we'd be able to get a taxi, resulting in a 6KM hike into Takamatsu. Took a photo because I thought it was funny, and then drove all the way back to Kochi City in time to return the car, get a snack in Kochi Airport, and fly out to Itami airport. Once arriving at Itami, we headed to Koshien Stadium for our hotel (a few blocks away). **Day 7 - August 7th - Summer Tournament** Woke up early, headed to Koshien Stadium to watch Opening Ceremony and the 1st game. After 1st game, they had everyone leave, so we grabbed lunch at the KFC across the way and went back for the next 3 games afterwards. After the last game, we took the train to Shin-Osaka Station to stay in a hotel there for our next day's travels. **Day 8 - August 8th - Train to Hokkaido** Woke up early, caught the Shinkansen to Tokyo, took the train to Sumida, swapped out clothes/did laundry. In the early afternoon, we boarded the Shinkansen from Tokyo to Shin-Hakodate station in Hokkaido where we would connect to the local train into Sapporo that evening. Grabbed eki ben for both of us on the trip! Once arriving in Shin-Hakodate, transferred to the train to Sapporo (had to check with the gate attendant, as Navitime and Google were telling me a different platform number than it looked like the correct train would be, and was able to get the right train) and checked in around 10:30 (ate a fami chiki for energy by the end of the night). **Day 9 - August 9th - Noodles and Chocolate** Needing to get Udon on Hokkaido, we found a shop only a train station away. Headed to Shiroi Koibito's factory for an afternoon of fun. They have a little history of chocolate walkthrough \"museum\" thing you get to learn at, as well as a view of the factory floor as chocolates/treats are being made. We also got high tea styled tea and treats in the shop upstairs and did a chocolate cookie treat thing workshop (you have to pay, not included with the entry). There's also a little animatronic show I think every hour in the garden, as well as a whole play area across the street. If you're in the area, it's definitely fun! After Chocolate, we had a reservation at a Ramen shop, as we figured we had to try Miso Ramen if we were in Hokkaido! Grabbed dinner, explored one of the underground malls at the train station, and headed back to the hotel. **Day 10 - August 10th - Nippon Ham Fighters and Pokemon Store** As part of my love of baseball, I figured we'd have to watch the Fighters play in Es Con Field, so we hopped on the train again and took in the game. (The only PL game we saw, the rest of the NPB games were CL) After the game, we went back to Sapporo to get dinner and realized there was a Pokemon Store in one of the malls, so I went in searching for something, anything Scyther related (my favorite Pokemon). After being disappointed that they have plushies and toys for like 75% or more it seemed of the original 151, but NOT my Scyther, I found a series of stickers with all 151 original (yay). So if you really like one of the original 151, and it's NOT one of the popular ones, check out a store - the stickers should have all 151. Mostly in order, except the popular ones are at the top (like Pikachu is probably top left instead of Bulbasaur, but Scyther was near the bottom, as he's number 123) Got Tonkatsu after Pokemon, and went back to the hotel for a VERY early morning train to the airport. **Day 11 - August 11th - Back to Honshu, beginning of the rest of the ancestors** We booked the 1st flight to Haneda out of Sapporo/Chitose Airport, so we had to get up pretty early, but a mini nap on the plane helped us get back to our Sumida hotel. Dropped off all our baseball merch/Pokemon stuff, grabbed our laundry detergent, got lunch at a local burger place nearby (McLean Burger) which was pretty darn tasty, and hopped on another Shinkansen to Hiroshima, where something like 90% of Japanese Americans (older families, not more recent immigrants) came from, and the rest of our ancestors except one came from. Checked into our hotel near Zoom Zoom Stadium and grabbed some Gyoza at an Izakaya, returned to the hotel, and went to sleep. **Day 12 - August 12th - Wife's side Heritage (and a little of mine) and the beauty of Hiroshima Prefecture** Woke up early (again) so we could grab the rental car from Hiroshima Station. *Note - I am 1/2 Japanese (both parents are 1/2 also, so that's fun), but my wife is 100%. 7 of her 8 great grandparents were from Hiroshima Prefecture. 2 of my 4 were - the other 2 were in Kochi. Also, my wife's maternal grandfather actually spent time in Japan after being born in the US, and lived in Hiroshima for a while where his friend painted a waterfall from a local hike. Our big goal for this day was to find that waterfall and let my wife see this place that was so important to her grandfather.* I did a bunch of research ahead of time for all our ancestors, and was able to - at the very least - get the name of the village they were born in/came from, so equipped with a list of the villages and marks on my google maps for my best estimate at the location of something to indicate the village's existence, we headed out on a trip around Hiroshima Prefecture! Our first stop was Shinanotaki Waterfalls, which we had tracked down to be the waterfall in my wife's grandfather's painting. The drive through the countryside was beautiful (Shikoku was too, so if you get a chance to drive, go for it!) and we arrived at the trailhead while it was still early. We went a few KM in to visit all 3 of the waterfalls and are pretty sure we were able to find the correct fall of the 3 matching against a photo of the painting. She was able to pay her respects to her grandfather there as well, and we spent a lot of time just enjoying the quiet nature. (Be careful if you're out there though, there are snakes once you get further in to the area where it's less traveled) Next, we hit a series of villages/areas our family was from. In some, they had museums detailing the history of the area (some museums were a little bigger, with english translations, others were very small and had Japanese only), in others, the only proof of existence was a bus stop or train stop with the old town's name. After some digging around, we found that those with just a train or bus stop more or less just ran out of people/dissolved, and the stops were named, as they are in the location the villages used to be. So - we still got to visit the locations! *Next trip we are determined to find more, so if we are able to focus and learn Japanese better, we will try to speak with local temples and others in the area to try and narrow down where gravestones may be.* Thankfully, most of our ancestors lived in locations that were able to be one big loop around the prefecture, and we got to our last stop - my maternal side - an hour or so before sunset. I got a photo next to a government building that marked the village's location (it was now a suburb of Hiroshima City), and have noted it for a future trip when I can hopefully get a chance to find the grave. After the long day of exploring, we got Pizza at the Pizza Vending Machine (which was just a fun thing we saw online and wanted to try), and got ready for an expected emotional day to come. **Day 13 - August 13th - Peace Museum, Costco, Sore Yuke Carp** Being Japanese American, we were very interested in visiting the Peace Museum in Hiroshima, so I booked an early slot (8am) due to the date being close to the anniversary AND it being Obon season. This was the right decision as it was packed inside. If people can only do one thing in the city of Hiroshima, I think the Peace Museum should be one of the candidates. It is so full of emotion, education, and just incredible stories of survivors and the whole lead up to the Atomic Bombing(s). There isn't much I can write here to convey how powerful everything was visiting, but in a sense it reminded me of the Holocaust museum in its call for action and the devastation caused by the bomb. If you can go, I suggest going. They sometimes have survivors speak, as well as folks who are continuing on the stories of those who survived. I recommend listening to their talks as well. Don't forget to explore the whole Peace Park too, they have more free exhibits and just walking through the place that used to be a bustling district feels eerie. After the museum, I knew we would need some time to digest everything we saw, so after realizing there was a Costco in Hiroshima, I asked my wife if she wanted to go just for the novelty of it. Costco is as you would expect. It's a Costco. Feels pretty similar to a US one, but with some differences in products (although it's like in the US, where there are differences based on region). The food court was great. We got the (pork) hot dog, bulgogi bake, a smoothie, ice cream sundae, and the bucket of chicken fingers/potato wedge things. Ate - got some cheap water, bought some non-perishable Japanse groceries we'd usually get in the US, but in a bigger size because Costco, and then headed back to the hotel to prepare for the baseball game. *For those who don't know - the Hiroshima Toyo Carp are a BIG part of the city, and are very strongly connected with the city, it's struggles, reconstruction, and perseverance. .* Mazda Zoom Zoom Stadium is where my wife fell in love with the Hiroshima Carp, and maybe fully committed to her enthusiasm of Nippon Professional Baseball. All the NPB games we had been to so far were wonderful experiences, but the joy and love of the sport and their team was just something special in Hiroshima. Even though they lost that game, my wife immediately asked me to try and find more NPB games to watch on our trip, so I bought tickets to a Swallows vs Carp game and Giants vs Carp game later on the trip. If you can only watch 1 baseball team in Japan, I'd say the Carp are up there. Can't get their song out of my head either, or some of the player songs! **Day 14 - August 14th - Miyajima and Hofu for the final ancestor** This was our last full day with a car in Japan, and while I had originally planned on taking the train to my wife's final ancestor village in the city of Hofu, it wasn't too much of a drive, and the specific location wasn't really that close to a subway. Plus - driving would let us stop at anywhere fun we found along the way, such as Miyajima island (which DOES have a JR station if you want to visit it from Hiroshima but don't have a car). We got to Miyajima early, which was nice, as we were able to visit the shrine with it being a little less crowded. There are 2 ferries to get there, one of which is operated by JR, so the JR pass WILL work on it (you still have to pay 100 yen I believe total on the way TO the island, but the way back is free) and saves you like 400 yen, so a good Dandy Ice Cream bar and a drink. There was a local museum about the area near the shrine that we visited, as well as just walking through the streets. I think you could spend the better part of the day here if you wanted, there's an aquarium as well as a whole other park and area to visit up the mountain (you can take a tram or walk I believe). Unfortunately, we wanted to make sure we got to have fun in Hofu (Yamaguchi Prefecture), so we left after a lunchtime snack of yakitori. The drive, once again, was very pretty on the way alongish the coastline and towards Yamaguchi prefecture. Getting into Hofu, our first stop was the village my wife's final ancestor had come from, and they had a community center we were able to take a photo in front of! Unfortunately they were closed at that time, but next trip, we'll try to go in and learn a little more! The village is just a suburb of Hofu now, and part of it is even just a big ol' Aeon mall, but it was really special to her, and a little funny when we realized the family that came from there didn't have as cool of a name as we thought they did. The name was just the Village name with da after it, which we are assuming would be . Either way, it was really cool to be able to hit all the villages! After the community center, we saw that we were not too far from Hofu Tenmangu Shrine, so we drove there and visited. It's quite peaceful, and was very relaxing (and refreshing) to just view the city from the top of the never completed pagoda. After paying respects to the kami/shrine, we left Hofu to get back to Hiroshima, do laundry, and sleep! **Day 15 - August 15th - Head to Yamaguchi on** **~~Hello Kitty Shinkansen~~** **by way of Hakata (you read that right)** Our original plan for this day was going to be taking the Hello Kitty Shinkansen from Hiroshima to Yamaguchi, drop off our luggage, and then take the train to Hofu to find the village my wife's last ancestors were from. We already visited the village though, so we figured we'd just take the Hello Kitty Shinkansen to Hakata to maximize Hello Kitty time and to maybe sneak an Udon in Kyushu so we could get every island down, and THEN back to Yamaguchi (well, the big 4) We started the day by heading to a batting cage/arcade in Hiroshima, as we had the car until around 2pm (The Hello Kitty train was due to arrive at 2:08pm, so we were going to return it at 1ish and get to the platform). Batting cages are always fun for me, and this one had 2 pitching cages as well as the usual Japanese styled batting cages (they have players pitching to you and the release point is where the hand would be, so you can get timing down. They also have different pitches the machine can throw at you). After feeling accomplished as a former High School pitcher in making contact with some pitches thrown at around 140 kmph and getting a few good strikes thrown at a whopping 100+ units per hour (I'll pretend it was MPH), we played some Initial D, rhythm games, and headed to Hiroshima station to return the car and ride on the Hello Kitty train! After the car return and lunch, we got to the platform in time to see the 2:08 train arrive. Us, alongside a bunch of other folks who did NOT check the JR train status pages that morning were excited as we recorded/watched a normal ol' Kodama show up. (Hello Kitty had maintenance issues that morning and had to be cancelled/replaced with a normal train) I was more bummed than I should have been, but my wife was very supportive and convinced me to rebook a train for the following day to ride the Hello Kitty train if possible - more on that on the 16th. We arrived in Hakata, stored our luggage using ECBO Cloak (which was pretty convenient) and got ourselves some Udon. After eating dinner, we explored a bit and visited some shrines/temples. Fun overall day, and we will have to visit Kyushu again! Jumped back on the Shinkansen back to Yamaguchi to sleep and prepare for our Onsen day in Yamaguchi. **Day 16 - August 16th - Hello Kitty can't escape us, Onsen time** While on the Train to Hakata the day before, and because we had the JR pass so it was no additional cost to us, I booked a trip ON the Hello Kitty Shinkansen from Yamaguchi to Okayama and then back. It was silly, but it would also give us somewhere to store our luggage (on the train with us) between our Yamaguchi Hotel and our Onsen we were staying at in the Yuda Onsen area of Yamaguchi. Hello Kitty was fun, it's just a normal train with 2 special cars at the front and Hello Kitty stickers/decorations on the doors between the other cars (and in a few other places), but it was still something different, and we got a photo with the cat herself! Unfortunately not much Kerropi stuff for my wife (her favorite Sanrio character), but we still had a good time. Check in for the Hotel/Onsen/Ryokan was at 3pm, so even after our shinkansen fun time, we had time to burn, so we dropped our luggage off at the Ryokan and explored the area. Found a nice little park \"Inoue Park\" and enjoyed some time there before fully being lazy and enjoying the hot springs and our hotel/room (we got one of the fancier rooms that also had a private hot spring bath for us). Ate yakuniku for dinner down the street, and returned to the hotel to be lazy again. **Day 17 - August 17th - Getting to Nagoya, being thankful to the ancestors and luck** *Note - If you were in Japan during August or watched the news/weather, you may have seen that there was an Earthquake near the beginning of the month as well as a series of storms/typhoons. We were SUPER lucky the whole trip. The earthquake hit southern Japan when we were in Hokkaido, the first typhoon (that I remember at least) was avoided by us as we went from Hokkaido to Tokyo, and the storms flooding Tokyo hit while we were in Yamaguchi/Nagoya. We even avoided a massive rainstorm later on the trip by seconds and got out of Tokyo back home to the US right before the next typhoon hit. Not sure if we're lucky or what, but I'll give thanks to my ancestors as well for keeping us safe :)* My wife had a friend she had tutored in school years ago (helping her with English when she was in the US for a few years) that lived in Nagoya, so we visited her for a day and brought her some requested items - Ranch Dressing, Takis, and Chili candies. We also hung out and did Karaoke, that was the 17th and 18th, so there wasn't much else in Nagoya THIS time around, but we'll be back for sure. **Day 18 - August 18th - Leaving Nagoya and more Baseball** After leaving Nagoya we went back to our Sumida hotel and swapped out our luggage/clothes again/did more laundry. We had lunch on the train, so we just made our way to Meiji Jingu Stadium to watch the Carp take on the Swallows. We sat in the Carp cheering section for this game so my wife could join in on the cheers while I kept score. Not much else besides how much I love (NPB CL) baseball :) **Day 19 - August 19th - Day off and Kimono Shopping** Now that we were back in Tokyo at our main hotel, we wanted to grab some Kimono. With my family crest now known, I also was hoping I'd be able to find something with it, but realistically just wanted to get us some new Kimono now that we had lost so much weight and also just as something to wear in warmer months (our Kimono we have are for colder weather). My wife was able to get a really nice kimono and yukata (with the shorter sleeves now that she's married :P ) and I was able to find a lighter one for myself as well. While looking at Kimono we also saw a Haori with my family's crest, so I grabbed that as well! We got back to our hotel , ate dinner and got to sleep early because the next 2 days were going to be on Mt. Fuji! **Day 20 - August 20th - Mt. Fuji and the Subashiri trail** Because I totally botched things and wrote the wrong day down to reserve mountain huts, I ended up booking a guided hike (in english) up Mt. Fuji with the Fuji Mountain Guides, as it came with a hut, but also was nice to have guides help us out/get timing figured out to watch the sunrise at the top, and a bunch of other small things along the way that were useful. We met up with the guides in Tokyo, took a private small bus to the Subashiri 5th station, and began the hike. It's pretty steep, but doable if you are in okay shape. Just take your time and be careful. We did opt into buying a non-walking stick to get branded/stamped at stations we stopped at along the way. Hike took a while, but we had beautifully clear weather on the way up and we were able to get some Udon along the way too, so we got 4 island and Mt. Fuji for our Udon pilgrimage. As we neared the 8th station (the hotel we were staying at - Fujisan Hotel) the weather started to get a lot colder and much more overcast. I stepped into the hotel dry, and as my wife was stepping in, the heavens opened up and it started to POUR. Her backpack (with a cover) got hit with water, but she was 1 second or so quick enough getting in that she didn't get hit. (yay for good luck!). Ate dinner at the hotel, and then an early sleep as the plan was to visit the summit just before the sun rose. **Day 21 - August 21st - Sunrise on Fuji and dying on the way down** I didn't get to sleep immediately because I was too excited about everything and was playing on my phone. That was a poor decision, just as trying to drink less water so I'd have to pee less (toilets cost per use on Mt. Fuji) so I woke up with a pretty bad headache from lack of sleep, dehydration, and probably a little bit of altitude sickness. I powered through, and with the assistance and encouragement of my wife (she's pretty awesome btw), we made it to the top before the sunrise came. Once I was up there, had a bunch of water in me, and I think just the beauty of it all, I was feeling a lot better headache/nausea wise and we were able to enjoy some time visiting the shrine, getting the summit stamps, and enjoying the view. (She brought her film camera on the trip, so she was having a blast taking photos as well). The way down the Subashiri trail (not sure if the others are like this too) was rough. It's \"fast\", but it's pretty steep and a LOT of really loose sand. If you go slow, you won't fall much, if at all, but it's really tough on the knees! By the time we got to the bottom it felt weird walking on levelish ground, and our legs were super sore. Thankfully we were able to hop on the bus and get dropped off in Gotemba where we took a series of trains to get to Hakone and the hotel my wife's dad's cousin gifted us a stay in as a wedding gift (Hyatt Regency Hakone). With dead legs, we cleaned ourselves, rested, ate dinner at the sushi restaurant in the hotel, and I just lay on the couch while my wife soaked in the hot spring downstairs. We ended up splurging and getting room service, and the cajun fries were surprisingly delicious! **Day 22 - August 22nd - The final FULL day of Japan, and more Baseball!** Still sore from Mt. Fuji, and with our JR pass having just expired, we took the hotel shuttle to Odawara and booked the Romancecar from there to Shinjuku. From there we were able to take local trains back to our hotel in Sumida and start reorganizing and packing everything up. We also did a full load of all our laundry so we'd have less to do when we returned home. For our final big event, we watched the Hiroshima Toyo Carp take on the Yomiuri Giants. For baseball fans, it was pretty exciting, a 1 run game going into the top of the 9th where the Carp tied it against the starter for the Giants who had been throwing a wonderful game. We sat in the Giants' cheering section this game, so my wife had to hide her Carp love and wear a Giants hat this time around (as Northern California folks, our families rooted for the SF Giants, so we have by default been rooting for the Tokyo Giants too, in addition to the Carp). After the carp pulled out the win in Extra Innings, we stayed until the stadium was closing to wait out the subway rush, but also to just enjoy the last few moments of baseball. Finally, we returned to Sumida for one last night and packed our last few merchandise items away. **Day 23 - August 23rd - One last Udon and leaving Japan** We had a blast this trip. I can't wait to come again and visit the relatives again, maybe find more once we can speak better in the other cities too! But - before we left, we wanted to get our favorite Udon spot again, so we went to Taniya once more (There's a reason we stayed in Sumida, it's close to Taniya!) and ate some Udon while watching the Koshien Summer Tournament's final game, which was also a great one to see. When finished, we headed to the hotel to collect our luggage they were holding, and hopped on the local train to Narita airport and headed back home. **Things of note -** JR pass was worth it to us by a non-trivial amount, but a large part of that extra buffer is the re-booked Hello Kitty Shinkansen round trip. If you aren't planning on taking as many/as long of a Shinkansen route as we did, it is probably not worth it, but please still check one of the many calculators online. I personally like the Navitime one for estimating the cost, but it seemed to be stuck on the 7 day pass when trying to tell you your value, so just take the number you'll spend on rides from that and compare it against the JR pass webpage (the .net one is the one done BY JR I believe) If you're going during Obon or any big festivals, try booking your trains a few days in advance at least, because it seemed pretty busy on most of ours (I booked mine almost entirely the first day of the trip once I got the pass, and I had zero issues finding us spots, but it was pretty close on some trains). Also, please book the oversized baggage seats if you're gonna have oversized baggage. There were a lot of people who didn't, and it caused some discomfort/annoyance on the fuller trains. I love the heat, my wife enjoys/tolerates the heat. It was definitely hot in August. I know I'm weird that I enjoyed the heat and humidity. Folks told us that this was hotter than usual, but things have been hotter than usual recently in Japan, so if you are sensitive to the heat and you CAN avoid August, I'd suggest it. If you like the heat, or if you don't have a choice, don't be too deterred. It's hot, but if you have an umbrella to shade vs the sun, and you plan trips into Convenience Stores when doing long walks or malls, or places with A/C, it will help. Also, just hydrate a lot and bring sunscreen :) Japan is super busy with tourists - but it seems to be only in the \"popular\" spots. Our trip took us outside of the hotspots, so we didn't really see any overcrowding for almost the entire trip (outside of subways right after baseball games). So - I'd say if things are crowded in Tokyo/Osaka/Kyoto, go visit the countryside! There's so much beauty out there, and you may find something cool! Even within Tokyo, a lot of the places we went weren't very full of tourists, and we were some of the only foreigners there. We converted currency at Haneda and got a reasonably good rate. Same with Hakata Station's bank conversion machine. We were able to use Credit Card for most things in cities, but just ask/check ahead of time. The smaller towns needed cash a lot more. For internet/phone we did a combination of sim cards and a pocket wifi. SIM card worked the whole time quite well, and so did the pocket wifi, but the pocket wifi sometimes needed to be restarted to reconnect after it had lost signal for a while (Shinkansen, or tunnel, or just on our hikes outside of cell service). The pocket wifi also had a pretty good battery and would last essentially a whole day (If you are heading out early and plan to stay out late, I'd bring a power bank to give it an extra 2 or so hours) Sorry for the enormous post, but I hope this can be of help to someone, and I hope I didn't leave out anything."}
{"id": "0083", "text": "I just returned from an unforgettable journey across western Japan, and I wanted to share some details in case anyone else is planning something similar. My wife and I wanted to explore some of Western Japans most beautiful and historic places, and the Sunrise Express trains ended up being the perfect bookends to our adventure! # Day 1: The Sunrise Express from Tokyo to Okayama We started our journey by boarding the **Sunrise Izumo Express** in Tokyo at 21:50, traveling in two separate **Single Room** to Okayama. Id heard a lot about these trains and managed to snag our tickets through Sunrise Express Tickets which made the whole process really smooth for us. The room was cozy but comfortablejust enough space to relax and sleep as we cruised overnight. Waking up to views of rural Japan outside our window as the train neared Okayama was magical. By the time we arrived, we felt well-rested and ready to explore. # The Sunrise Express: A Highlight of the Trip One of the main reasons we embarked on this journey was the chance to ride the **Sunrise Express**, Japans very last sleeper train. For me, the experience was steeped in nostalgia. Many years ago, when I first came to Japan as a participant in the **JET Program** (the government brings in foreigners to teach English for a few years), I lived in **Aomori** and used to take an overnight sleeper train from Tokyo to get back up north. The excitement of boarding the train late at night and watching the landscape change as we rolled toward the Tohoku region is a memory Ive always cherished. Sadly, most of Japans sleeper trains have disappeared over the years. So, when I found out that the Sunrise Express was still running, I knew I had to experience it againthis time, heading south instead of north. Theres something uniquely nostalgic and romantic about traveling by sleeper train, especially in a country where trains play such an iconic role in daily life. Taking the Sunrise Express wasnt just a mode of transportation for us; it was one of the highlights of the trip. The train itself felt like an adventuredrifting off to sleep in Tokyo and waking up in a completely new region felt surreal. The combination of comfort, privacy, and stunning scenery made it an unforgettable experience and one of the reasons we planned our whole itinerary around these iconic trains. Booking the tickets through Sunrise Express Tickets was seamless, and Id definitely recommend experiencing it if youre planning a trip through Japan. # Day 2-3: Hiroshima and its History From Okayama, we hopped on a the Shinkansen to **Hiroshima**. Our first stop was the **Atomic Bomb Dome** and the surrounding Peace Memorial Park, a sobering but essential experience. After that, we explored the **Yamato Museum** in nearby Kure, where we got to learn more about Japans naval history and even saw a 1:10 scale model of the infamous battleship Yamato. On the following day, we visited **Itsukushima Shrine** on **Miyajima Island**. The floating torii gate at high tide was even more stunning than in the photos! We took our time wandering the island, eating some grilled oysters, and admiring the peaceful atmosphere. # Day 4-5: Biking Across the Shimanami Kaido The highlight of our trip was undoubtedly biking across the Shimanami Kaido, a breathtaking cycling route that connects **Honshu** to **Shikoku** via several islands and massive suspension bridges. We rented bikes in **Onomichi** and spent two days leisurely cycling the route. The scenery along the way was incrediblesparkling waters, quaint island villages, and sweeping views from the bridges. We even stayed in a small guesthouse along the way, which gave us a chance to unwind and chat with some friendly locals. # Day 6: Shikoku and Takamatsu After completing the Shimanami Kaido, we took a train to **Takamatsu**, the gateway to Shikoku. The citys highlight was **Ritsurin Garden**, a beautiful traditional Japanese garden that was a perfect spot to relax after all that cycling (70 km+!). We also enjoyed some **Sanuki udon**, Takamatsus famous udon dish. There's nothing quite like freshly made udon noodles after a long day of travel! # Day 7: The Sunrise Seto Back to Tokyo To wrap up our trip, we boarded the **Sunrise Seto** for the journey back to Tokyo. This time, my wife and I stayed in the **Sunrise Twin Room**, which was a bit more spacious than the single rooms. Having a private space together made the overnight trip even more enjoyable. We loved watching the scenery from our room during the day and were surprised by how comfortable the train was to sleep on! # Final Thoughts This trip was a perfect mix of history, culture, and outdoor adventure. The Sunrise Express trains were a great way to start and end the journey, offering both convenience and a unique travel experience. If youre planning a trip to Japan and want to try something a little different, I highly recommend this itinerary!"}
{"id": "0084", "text": "Edit: toddler was 18 months old at the time of this trip. Well, I shouldve posted this a while ago but never got to it. Sharing our 24-day trip last December with a toddler. Apologies in advance, it will be a long one. I hope this will help other parents planning a trip to Japan. Were heading back this December :). I'll try to include the restaurants we ate at as much as I can remember them, if not mentioned, no high chair was available. List of tips for parents at the end! I will preface all of this by saying that we've been lucky enough to travel a lot with our toddler so we weren't stressing too much. We also live in NYC so we're also used to navigating big cities with a little one. The report will become less detailed towards the end as I didnt document as much by then. * Day 1: JFK - HND, arrival at 5AM. We slept on the flight and were feeling pretty good. Took a cab to our hotel and were able to check in around 7AM. We freshened up and decided to just start exploring the area and stay awake as long as we could. Toddler did an extra nap that day whilst holding onto 7/11 fried chicken and seemed otherwise fine. * Hibiya Park: we were lucky to still see foliage, Ginza, Tokyo Station * Restaurants: Glitch Coffee, Soranoiro Nippon (high chair + kids cutlery available), Ginza Sando (not sit down but amazing wagyu sando). * Hotel: The Peninsula. Great hotel, good location for us to ease into our trip. Very family friendly, they gave us a cute bib, snacks, slippers, baby soap/lotion and a guard rail for the bed so my toddler could just sleep in the big bed. The breakfast in the hotel was also great, they had high chairs, pencils and paper for drawing and kids menu. * Day 2: Tokyo. We love to walk around areas and just explore. We also made sure to find playgrounds wherever we could for our toddler to run around for a bit. * Yoyogi, Yoyogi Park, Meiji Jingu shrine, Shibuya, Aoyama * Restaurants: Menchirashi, Miyashin * Day 3: Tokyo. We were up early still due to the jetlag so went to Tsukiji outer market. It was busy but not as touristy as I thought it would be. It may be a bit overpriced but we still enjoyed the food a lot nonetheless. * Tsukiji outer market, Daikanyama, Shibuya * Restaurants: Tempura Abe. This was booked through our hotel and it was such a fun, authentic experience. It was so busy during lunchtime but enjoyed it thoroughly. Highly recommend. Chatei Hatou, cozy little coffeeshop with delicious cakes. * Day 4: Tokyo. * Yayoi Kusama Museum, Shinjuku, Shirogane Park, Kagaruzake, Akasake, Aoyama * Restaurants: Akomeya: this was a cool shop with an excellent food section, one section was just dedicated to rice and another floor of misc. goods. We ate lunch at the cafe and it was delicious. Sunnyhills for their pineapple cake. * Day 5: Tokyo &gt; Hakone &gt; Kawaguchiko. We decided to rent a car to have more freedom to move around in the five lakes area. Im glad we did, we were able to see different views of Fuji without any crowds. * Hakone Open Air Museum: really fun and beautiful museum in general and also great with a toddler. * Hotel: Bessho Sasa. Did not love the resort-y vibes of this hotel. The view of Mt. Fuji from our private onsen on the balcony of our room was beautiful but we werent a fan of how big the hotel was. It was pricey and the food was good but it was a lot. They provided a high chair and bed guard rails in our room. * Restaurants: 7/11 on the road, dinner at the hotel included * Day 6: Mt. Fuji. Weather forecast was rain + overcast so we went to the heritage center but we still got lucky because the weather turned. We had lunch and then drove around Lake Motosu-ko which was not crowded at all and have beautiful views of Mt. Fuji. * Mt. Fuji World Heritage Centre, Lake Motosu-ko * Restaurants: Unaten, fantastic unagi-don in a small local shop run by a wonderful husband/wife. * Day 7: Mt. Fuji &gt; Mishima &gt; Kyoto. We dropped our rental car off at Mishima station and then took the Shinkansen to Kyoto. * Chureito Pagoda: we got there at 9AM, it was getting crowded, Tenku-no Torii: we didnt realize how busy this area would be and that people get 3 min to take photos. We did end up staying but it was a bit of a waste of time, Kawaguchiko lake (Nagasaki Park): this had a stunning view of Mt. Fuji with no crowds. We had our 7/11 lunch there and just soaked in the views. * Restaurants: had the best hojicha soft serve of the trip here. Men-ya Kirameki - Kyoto Santo: one of my favorite bowls of ramen of the trip. Rich chicken broth. * Hotel: Hyatt Regency Kyoto. Wonderful hotel with attentive staff that booked some restaurants for us. Room was fine, big bathroom but not anything special imo. Bed guard rails provided + toiletries for toddler. * Day 8: Kyoto. We did the sightseeing early in the morning to beat the crowds (and toddler wakes up early anyway) and then chilled/explored the city the rest of the day. * Fushimi Inari (7AM), Tofuku-ji (9AM) * Restaurants: Hana Ice, St Coffee Roasters Kyoto, suba: excellent soba in a standing restaurant. Tea Ceremony, Fukujuen Honten. * Day 9: Kyoto. I felt a bit sick so my husband took our toddler to explore they did the following: * Arashiyama bamboo forest (7:30AM), Arashiyama Monkey Village, Kinkaku-ji. * Restaurants: Kanga-an. All vegan temple cuisine in a beautiful setting. * Day 10: Kyoto &gt; Osaka. We took the train to Osaka and had a chill day as I was still feeling off. * Hotel: voco Osaka. New hotel with modern interior. It was next to a nice park with a big playground which was nice the little one. * Day 11: Osaka. Exploring the city and its food * Kids Plaza Osaka, yes this is what you think this is. Its really fun for kids but intense for the adults haha. But good place for toddler to decompress. * Restaurants: Glitch Coffee Osaka, Takoyaki Umaiya, * Day 12: Osaka * Day 13: Osaka &gt; Naoshima. Train to Okayama Station, bus to Uno Port, ferry to Naoshima. * Naoshima is fantastic with a toddler. So much nature and cool sculptures to explore. It was low season which made the experience even more special as it wasnt crowded. * Hotel: Bennese House Park. Super cool hotel with shuttle service around the island. You get access to their galleries after hours as you walk to the restaurant for dinner. * Day 14: Naoshima. We rented bikes (one with a kid seat) and biked around the island to all the different museums/artworks. One of my favorite days of the trip. * Tado Ando Museum, Art House Project, Bennese Museum, Chichu Art Museum (our favorite!!), Lee Ufan Museum. * Day 15: Noashima - Takamatsu - Tokyo. We took the ferry to Takamatsu and ate at an oldskool udon shop before taking a flight to Tokyo. * Ritsurin Garden, stunning gardens close to the udon shop we went to. Unfortunately we didnt have a lot of time before our flight. * Restaurants: Sanuki Udon Ueharaya * Day 16: Tokyo. My parents joined us for the remainder of the trips which meant we had babysitters! * Hotel: Airbnb in Asakusa * Restaurants: Sushi Taira, no kid dinner. Our fanciest dinner of the trip, the service was attentive and the chef was friendly. Food was great but with the overall standards of food in Tokyo I was happy we just did this once. * Day 17: Tokyo * Nezu Museum * Day 18: Tokyo * Day 19: Tokyo &gt; Sapporo. Sapporo was another highlight of our trip in terms of food. The seafood there was just next level and as a soft serve lover the soft cream there is still something I dream of. * Hotel: Randor Residential Hotel Sapporo Suites. Good location and big rooms but nothing special. * Restaurants: Nijo Market, we had the most incredible seafood bowl here. We came back the next day. LeTAO, famous cheesecake made with Hokkaido milk. * Day 20: Sapporo * Restaurants: Jingisukan Daruma, no frill local spot for Hokkaido specialty BBQ Gengis Khan. This was delicious! * Day 21: Sapporo &gt; Lake Toya. We drove through the snow to a beautiful hotel in Lake Toya. * Hotel: Lake Toya Tsuruga Resort Hikari no Uta. Very kid friendly, bed guard rail and toiletries provided. We had a private onsen on the balcony which was wonderful with the snow. Food in the hotel was excellent, we had the Japanese dinner in a private room. * Day 22: Lake Toya &gt; Noboribetsu/Jigoku-dani &gt; Sapporo &gt; Tokyo. We drove back to the airport and made a stop in Noboribetsu to check our Hell Valley (Jigoku-dani). It was a little slippery but still walkable and very impressive to see. We then continued our drive to the airport and feasted on the wide variety of restaurants before flying back to Tokyo. * Restaurants: Kinotoya, the best soft serve weve ever had. We had it twice before our flight took off. * Hotel: Cerulean Tower Tokyu Hotel. Hotel was super central and provided toiletries and bed guard rail for toddler. We got executive rooms which included lounge access (kids not allowed though but my parents enjoyed it). * Day 23: Tokyo * Teamlab Planets, had toddler in the carrier and he seemed to enjoy it, same for my parents. To me it seemed a glorified instagram photo-op but enjoyed it nonetheless. * Restaurant: Shogun Burger * Day 24: Tokyo * Restaurants: Caffe Michelangelo, cute Italian restaurant in Aobadai. Torisoba Juban 156 (Ichikoro) another great chicken ramen spot. * Day 25: HND - JFK. Evening flight home, we slept again and arrived at 6pm. Jetlag was tougher going back but manageable. Tips for parents: * Not every restaurant will have a high chair, we brought this with us which was handy! * Small stroller is recommended, especially if you go to a small restaurant, they may ask you to fold it up. We used the Bugaboo Butterfly and also used the carrier a lot. * We used luggage forwarding between every accommodation. We traveled with stroller, small suitcase with 2 days worth of clothes &amp; toiletries and a small personal bag. We forwarded our big suitcases with more clothes, items we bought during our trip and additional diapers etc. * There are so many playgrounds! Try to look up some playgrounds in areas youre interested in and if your kiddo needs to decompress you can easily navigate there. * Download the app mama papa map on your phone, it shows nursing/changing rooms close to you. * All gardens/temples are great for kids to walk around without having to worry about cars. Of course be respectful of your surroundings. * Most malls and airports will have kids playing areas, just look for them on the map. * Diapers and wipes are not easily to find everywhere. I brought a lot of diapers from home (and knew I would use that space in my suitcase for clothes/items Id buy on the trip)."}
{"id": "0085", "text": "We (family of four with two kids ages 13 and 16) just returned from a terrific two-week trip to Japan. Ill try to keep the report as brief as possible, with recommendations noted when appropriate. Im a big fan of Tabelog (as it has consistently yielded some great recommendations for food), so have included those scores when possible. In terms of transportation in Hokkaido, we flew into New Chitose Airport and out of Asahikawa Airport, and had a rental car during the entirety of the trip (except for days spent in central Sapporo). **Days 1-5: Sapporo** We spent five days in Sapporo with one day dedicated to a trip to Otaru and the Shakotan Peninsula. In short, we loved Sapporo. It had all the amenities of a large metropolis (lots of food options, great public transportation, shops with anything one might want), but was still geographically small enough such that traveling around the city felt manageable and efficient. We visited the main sights, including the Sapporo Clock Tower, Nijo Market, Hokkaido Jingu, the Sapporo TV Tower, Odori Park, and Tanuki Koji shopping street. We also took a tour of the Royce Chocolate Factory and Cacao Town. Overall quite fun with the kids, especially the make your own chocolate bar experience, but I would skip this unless you want a family-oriented activity or are really into chocolate. The Shakotan Peninsula was gorgeous - we stopped at Shimamui Beach and Cape Kamui. We stayed at the Sapporo Stream hotel in Susokino. There is nothing particularly special about the hotel (its clean and relatively new), but we really enjoyed its location within the Cocono Susokino, which is a mixed use building consisting of a Lawsons, grocery store, food hall, and cinema. The kids loved the independence of going downstairs to grab food/snacks whenever they wanted, and we liked that they stayed in the building where we could easily find them. **Days 6-7: Lake Shikotsu** We spent two days at Lake Shikotsu and stayed at the Tsuruga Resort Spa Mizu no Uta. On one of the days, we took a guided canoe trip of Lake Shikotsu with Kanoa. This was one of the highlights of our entire trip. Our guide (Yuya) was friendly and informative, and knew the perfect places to stop along the lake so the kids could catch (and release) fish and shrimp. The lake was gorgeous, the weather was cool and breezy; truly a perfect outing. We also very much enjoyed our stay at the Tsuruga resort/hotel. The property itself is beautiful; we booked a room with an in room onsen, though we ended up using the public onsens throughout our stay because the facilities were really nice. Although the resort was fully booked (according to the hotel staff), it never felt crowded. We felt very relaxed and refreshed after our stay here. **Day 8: Noboribetsu** On the way to Noboribetsu, we visited the National Ainu Museum in Upopoy. We spent the morning and early afternoon here, and could have spent much longer but for scheduling needs. The exhibits/presentations were very informative about Ainu culture and the history of the Ainu people. We ate lunch at Amano Family Farm (3.55 - very delicious Wagyu yakiniku lunch in rustic setting; highly recommended). In Norboribetsu, we walked through Hells Valley, which was picturesque and had dinner Pizzeria Astra Pizzeria (3.30) (We went in not knowing what to expect from a pizzeria in a small, touristy onsen town and we loved it! The chef/owner uses caputo flour and local high quality ingredients, and makes each pizza to order.) In Noboribetsu, we stayed at the Dai-ichi Takimotikan hotel, which I would hesitate to recommend. While the room was clean, it needed a fresh coat of paint and some updating. The hotel itself felt like an aging Las Vegas casino (lots of worn carpeting, aging facilities including onsens that needed a refresh, etc.) **Day 9: Furano** From Noboribetsu, we drove to Furano. We saw the flower fields at Tomita Farm (the lavender fields were just beginning to bloom - gorgeous) and ate some perfectly ripened Furano melon at the Tomita Melon House. We went to Furano Cheese Factory hoping we could sign up for the cheese making experience for the kids, but it was entirely sold out. In the evening, we walked around Ningle Terrace. We stayed at the Dormy Inn La Vista hotel, which was a standard hotel (clean, small rooms, nice reception). **Days 10-12: Asahikawa** We spent the next three days in Asahikawa. On the way there, we went to the Shirogane Blue Pond (beautiful, but really only takes about 10 minutes to view the pond). Over the next three days we took the ropeway to Asahidake and walked the trail leading to Sugatami Pond, went river rafting on the Chubetsu River, and wandered around the central part of Asahikawa. Overall, I allotted perhaps too much time to Asahikawa. The city itself is pretty small and we could have combined our visit to Asahidake and river rafting into one day. But, it was a chance to relax while roaming the food hall and losing our money to the claw machines at Aeon Mall. We did have some pretty terrific meals in Asahikawa, including kaiten sushi lunch at Toriton Asahikawa (3.52), tonkatsu dinner at Iseni Ommoru (3.39), and excellent soup curry at Su-Pu Kare Okushiba Shouten (3.53). We stayed at the Amanek Hotel, which was a standard hotel (clean, small rooms, nice reception). **Days 13-15: Tokyo** We returned the car at Asahikawa Airport and took a morning flight to Haneda. On our last trip to Tokyo (in December 2023), we stayed in Shinjuku. This time we stayed in Asakusa, which we preferred for a couple of reasons. First, our hotel (the Mimaru Asakusa Station) was located right next to the river. My husband and I took some nice long walks along the river in the evening (so beautiful with the lights of the buildings and the trains crossing over the bridges), and the kids couldnt get enough of the food near Senso-ji Temple including beef menchi, pounded fried chicken, mochi, and melon pan. It was definitely crowded, but we embraced the fact that there would be lines everywhere and just went with it. In terms of activities, we went to teamLab Borderless in Azubadai Hills (we loved it, but we also loved teamLab Planets, YMMV) and spent one fun afternoon buying all sorts of desserts in the food halls of Matsuya and Mitsukoshi in Ginza. Our favorite activity was an afternoon spent learning how to make fake food through an Air BnB experience. We surprised ourselves by making ramen and sushi that looked very realistic. The kids had a blast. Thats it for the report. We had an amazing trip and feel so grateful (once again) to experience Japans natural beauty, the kindness and hospitality of the Japanese people, and the deliciousness of the food!"}
{"id": "0086", "text": "I recently returned to Japan after 5 years away (imposed by the pandemic) - I spent a couple of years living in Osaka (part of a working holiday visa, slightly extended) and returned to complete a few bucket list items, catch up with old friends and enjoy a little nostalgia. I absolutely despised working in Japan, for all the obvious reasons, but man, I just love travelling around and enjoying being free there. It really is one of the best countries for tourism that I've visited My itinerary involved quite a few less obvious items, so I thought I'd throw them out there for anyone who's interested in a slightly off the beaten path adventure. Day 1 - arrived on an overnight flight and caught up on sleep. Visited lots of supermarkets and combinis to check out the latest snacks and booze + a catch up with friends at Torikizoku (prices have increased, but still a bargain) Day 2 - Took a drive into Kyoto, for a peaceful morning walk up the Philosopher's Path, a brilliant nature retreat, which wasn't too hot or crowded on a weekend morning in summer. Passed by Arashiyama on the way, and saw absolute hordes of people, even in the early morning, so was glad to pass that up. One of the souvenir stands there had a lovely chat with us about meeting David Bowie and Iman (who took their honeymoon in Kyoto back in the 90s) and a connection to a friend who gifted the late Princess Diana a 100 million yen kimono. Fascinating stuff. Had lunch at Omen Udon, which appeared to be an extremely popular spot, with a long line for lunch. To be honest, it was so so at best. I prefer a heartier, less delicate, less pretentious Udon experience. Later, we passed by Uji, the spiritual home of matcha. Had a delightful green tea ice cream at one of the area's oldest tea houses, Tsuen Tea. A short walk across the town bridge gives visitors the chance for look at the building featured on Japan's 10 Yen coin, plus the usual street full of touristy omiyage shops (in Uji featuring matcha everything - gyoza, soba, even takoyaki) Day 3 - a walk around Osaka Castle Park + a delightful breakfast at R Bakery Day 4 - exploring my old neighbourhood for a self guided food tour. Sembayashi Shotengai is easy to reach by the Keihan Train Line, or the Osaka Metro Tanimachi Line - it's often referred to as the longest shopping arcade in Osaka (disputable). Much more authentic an experience than Dotonbori, with some really superb and reasonably priced eats. Vendors around here really exhibit the friendly Osakan stereotype. I recommend arriving with an appetite as there's lots of tasty stuff to be had. My top eats would be Curry Daiya, Kadoya Ice Cream, 99 Yen Bakery, A Takoyaki Stand - 200 Yen for 8 pieces, and lastly Ramen Marco, (it opened when I lived there and has now developed a big following) Day 5 - I booked a bus tour to Nagashima Spa Land with WILLER. I always wanted to go during my spell in Japan, but couldn't seem to find the time. It's now easier to get there directly from Osaka for a day trip. Steel Dragon 2000 and Hakugei are probably the best rollercoasters I've ever ridden. Steel Dragon looks absolutely terrifying, and is the longest rollercoaster track in the world, also the 5th highest. In fact, it's a very fun ride, once you get over the sheer height of it. Hakugei is an insane hybrid coaster, with a wooden base and steel track. It's starting to feature in many best of lists, since it's 2019 opening. Best of all, the park is pretty much dead on a weekday. Each ride had zero queues. They also have a really wonderful onsen for relaxing before or after the park, or if things shut down during rainy spells. Day 6 - A couple of good friends took us out to a super exclusive Katsu restaurant. Tonkatsu Manger is about a 30 minute train ride from downtown. This one is for the truly dedicated, as it requires customers to arrive in the early morning to write down their names for a lunch booking. Our friend dropped in around 7am, and we ended up being called in to eat around 1.30pm. That aside, it's a truly superb experience for those dedicated to Katsu. Day 7 - this is a really big insider tip. Gyomu Super is the supermarket beloved by expats in Japan, for it's low prices and huge range of interesting imported products, for those tired of daily Japanese cuisine. This particular branch seems to specialise in supplying yakiniku restaurants. It has obscene deals on rich, juicy, delicious wagyu beef. They're at the very back of the store and priced between 3000 and 7000 yen, depending on weight. Restaurants are likely to slice these hefts of meat into thin grillable pieces. I like to cook the whole thing in a more Western style, and it really is just absolutely delicious. I would come back to Osaka just to do that again. So that last day was spent going shopping, cooking and relaxing with my friends. The rest of my time was pretty much a blur of wandering around, sampling some of the new crafty beers and chu-his at convenience stores, and a little bit of izakaya hopping around Umeda and Namba. All in all a great trip. Thanks for reading."}
{"id": "0087", "text": "This is our family's second trip to Japan and I intentionally allocated more days to the Kansai region specifically Kyoto. Last time, we were unable to do our day trip to Kyoto and thus wanted to focus more days there. **Day 1: Arrival in Kansai** * Arrived in KIX and bought ICOCA cards at the train station. Our youngest was able to get a customized ICOCA card as she can get child rates. I also redeemed our Osaka Amazing Pass at the tourist information center in the airport. * We decided to take the limousine bus to Kyoto station. It was mostly uneventful. We intended to take a taxi to our hotel but none of the taxi drivers would take us so we took the subway instead. Here is where under packing helped a lot as our suitcases were not that heavy. They weren't that difficult to bring up the stairs. * Checked in to MIMARU Kyoto and after getting our room and resting a bit we decided to have an early dinner nearby. **Day 2: Kyoto** * Woke the kids up early and we set off for Fushimi-Inari shrine. It was a bit rainy but we had folding umbrellas and packable rain jackets so it wasn't an issue. It was quite nice that there weren't that many people around yet and those that were there were quiet and respectful. We did not go all the way up as I wasn't too optimistic about my knees. In retrospect we should have spent more time here. * We walked to Komyo temple and were the only ones there. It has a very nice rock garden and was so serene. We got tired though so we rested back at the hotel. * We had lunch at Ramen Nishiki. We were able to walk in when they opened and it was quite delicious. * After lunch we decided to go to Yasaka shrine and walked around Maruyama park. After we got tired we went back again to the hotel. * Then in the afternoon we decided to go to the Samurai and Ninja museum experience. It was fun getting to know more about the history of the samurai and whatnot. We even got to dress in samurai pictures and throw ninja stars. The kids enjoyed it. **Day 3: Kyoto** * The kids weren't used to this much walking so I was debating over whether we would take a cab to Arashiyama. Everyone woke up a bit later than targeted so I downloaded the GO taxi app and used it to get us to Arashiyama. It was a bit pricey but I was managing our energy levels. * We hung around the area and even stopped to rest by the river. Then we went to the nearby temple Tenryu-ji. * We left once the streets were getting very crowded with people which is around lunch time. We ended up going to Kura sushi which was surprisingly empty for lunch time. Then we had coffee in Hoshino coffee. * Our eldest was really complaining about his shoes so we had to go to the mall and buy him a new pair of running shoes. **Day 4: Kyoto** * We went to Nijo castle and the Kyoto imperial garden. My bad because I did not notice that the Kyoto Imperial palace is closed on Tuesdays. * Decided to have lunch at Nishiki Market and had yummy grilled food. * I had to give the kids something non-cultural so off we went to Nintendo Kyoto for some merch and photo ops. * We had a lovely dinner at a Thai place next to the river. **Day 5: Kyoto - Osaka** * Packed up for our move to Osaka. I missed the deadline for the next day but luckily there is a same day luggage forwarding service for Kyoto - Osaka. I made sure I got our luggage to the front desk in time. I was also able to pay via credit card. * We did not take the Shinkansen and instead opted for a Limited Express train. It was also cheaper. * Got to the MIMARU Osaka Namba Station in time for check-in so off we went to our room to rest and settle down a bit. * We left around 6ish to see if we could grab a table at Tendon Makino and luckily we were ahead of the dinner rush. Really good tempura! * I think we walked around Dotoburi a bit then went back to the hotel **Day 6: Osaka** * We went to Osaka castle and it was impressive. Be warned though that if you want to enter you will have to walk up the stairs. I tapped out at the 4th floor but the rest of the family went to the top for an amazing view. We did not need to line up for this since it was part of the Osaka Amazing Pass * We had lunch at Kuromon market at Kouragami and it was pricey but delicious. * The kids wanted to rest in the afternoon so hubby and I went shopping at the nearby shopping district. * Came back to have dinner at the nearby Torikizoku. Not exactly vegetarian friendly but hubby managed. * We actually had tickets for TeamLab Botanical but I was tired so I chalked it up as a loss. **Day 7: Nara** * The kids loved the experience of meeting the deer at Nara. We also went to the nearby Kofuku-ji Temple. * We took the train back to Osaka and had lunch at the restaurant with the giant gyoza signage in Dotonburi. Then we had grabbed some Cremia soft serve from the nearby Excelsior cafe. * I had to do another non-cultural experience for the kids so went to the Pokemon center in Parco. Again we purchased merch and had a lot of photo ops. We also went to Uniqlo and bought a lot. * We had dinner at Kura Sushi but had to wait half an hour since it was peak dinner rush. **Day 8: Kobe** * Our initial plan was to go to Himeji Castle in the morning then Kobe in the afternoon to meet hubby's friend. However I was too tired to contemplate a 2hr train ride. * I can't remember where we had lunch but we headed for Kobe right after. * Our friend couldn't meet up right away so we killed time by going to Kobe's Herb garden and ropeway. It was such a good call to do so. The cable car going up had spectacular views. I also enjoyed looking at the plants and various roses in the garden. * Finally we went off to meet our friend and he took us to a place called Kushi Baru for dinner. It was an excellent izakaya and the skewers were delicious. * After dinner we headed back to Osaka. **Day 9: Headed home** * I packed up and made sure nothing was left and we checked out. I booked a car service to the airport since we had a lot of luggage and did not want to go through the train system. * Got to the airport in good time but had to wait for check-in. After check-in and immigration I went around the airport to of course buy some chocolates and other stuff that caught my eye. The confectionary section is now automated where there is a kiosk for you to decide what you were buying then you brought your chit to the cashier. Once you've paid at the cashier you would wait for your number to be called at the pick-up station. I guess this made it more efficient. **Conclusion:** It was an amazing trip and I'm so glad we were able to do what we did. I guess I overestimated our physical state because we got tired with all the walking. So though we weren't able to do some activities we were ok with it because we did not want to burn out."}
{"id": "0088", "text": "Hi everyone, My partner (34M) &amp; I (32F) are planning a 3 week trip to Japan starting late 2024. I am hoping to fit in some more rest days / rest time but am looking for advice on what activities to take out if needed etc. If you have any insight at all on if this is all too much or anything else that sticks out to you, would love to hear it. If it helps, we are both lovers of natural scenery and history. We are relatively fit and participate in sports but are worried we may not be accustomed to the levels of walking everyone keeps talking about. The last thing we want is to be burnt out. **Day 1 (Tokyo)** * Fly in to Tokyo from Sydney, arriving around dinner time * Check in, eat and rest **Day 2 (Tokyo)** * Senso-ji in the morning * Nakamise-dori * Tokyo National Museum * Maybe Ueno Park if we're up to it in the evening Day 3 (Tokyo) * Visit Meiji Jingu &amp; Gyoen * Explore Shibuya / Harajuku Day 4 (Hakone) * Lake Ashi / Hakone Sightseeing Cruise * Rest at Ryokan Day 5 (Nagano) * Travel to Nagano via Shinjuku * Rest / free time as this is a pretty long travel day Day 6 (Nagano) * Jigokudani Monkey Park * Onsen at Yudanaka Day 7 (Kanazawa) * Omicho Market * Higashi Chaya District Day 8 (Kanazawa) * Kenroku-en * Kanazawa Castle * Nagamachi Samurai District Day 9 (Shirakawa-go) * Day trip to Shirakawa-go Day 10 (Kyoto) * Fushimi Inari Temple * Nishiki Market * Tea Ceremony Day 11 (Kyoto / Uji) * Kinkaku-ji * Travel to Uji (though I am thinking about skipping Uji altogether to spend more time in Kyoto) Day 12 (Osaka) * Osaka Aquarium * Kuromon Ichiba Market * Dotonbori Day 13 (Nara) * Day trip to Nara * Deer Park * Todai-ji Day 14 (Osaka) * Osaka Castle (I just had to move things around in my itinerary to fit this in after watching Shogun!) Day 15 (Hiroshima) * Peace Memorial Park * Atomic Bomb Dome * Hiroshima Castle Day 16 (Miyajima Island) * Day trip to Miyajima Island * Mt Misen Day 17 (Hokkaido) * Odori Park * Susukino Day 18 (Hokkaido) * Nijo Market * Mt Moiwa Day 19 (Hokkaido) * Historic Village of Hokkaido * Hokkaido Museum Day 20 (Tokyo) * Rest * Souvenir shopping * teamLab Borderless Day 21 (Tokyo) * More souvenir shopping * Fly home Looking forward to providing a trip report on my return!"}
{"id": "0089", "text": "Hello everyone! I read a lot of trip reports before I left for my trip to Japan so wanted to give back. About us: We went as a group of 3 people total (all 21M). We all just graduated college and wanted to take a grad trip. We traveled from May 9th to May 23rd (I got really busy after the trip so was only able to write it up now). We aren't huge drinkers so we didn't really visit any bars or clubs. **Day 0 - Arrival (8,872 Steps) May 9-10th** We arrived at Narita around 2pm JST. Customs took about an hour, and then getting the Passmo passport took another 30 minutes. After this, we went straight to our hotel in Shin-Okubo (right next to Shinjuku). We were pretty tired so we just walked around a bit and went to the Shinjuku Metro Government building for a (FREE!) observatory view of the city. For dinner, we went to Yoshinoya and were in bed by 10pm. **Day 1 - Tokyo (34,696 steps) May 11th** This was our first full day in Tokyo. We started the day off early and went to the Outer Tsukiji Fish Market. We wandered around for a while (there were a lot of tourists here!) and ate some dango and tamogoyaki. There was less fish here than I was expecting. Of the food streets we went to on the trip, this was definitely my least favorite. Afterwards, we went to the Hama Rikyu Gardens which were a ten minute walk away. The gardens are super pretty and very peaceful. We also got some tea and dango here at a tea house in the middle of the park. Next, we went to the Ginza area for some shopping. In particular, we went to the Uniqlo Flagship, Muji Flagship, and the GU flagship. We are very cheap shoppers, so we didn't really hit the luxury stores (which is most of Ginza). In between our shopping, we got lunch at Orca Teppanyaki. We made the reservations before we went to Japan. The food was a bit pricey but was good. We also went to the Asakusabashi Matsuri after lunch. This was super underwhelming and I would not recommend going. There were a total of 10 stalls and not many people. After finishing our shopping, we went to the Ginza 6 mall which has a really nice rooftop garden and views of Ginza. We got back to our hotel around 7pm and relaxed for a bit. Then, we went to Omoide Yokocho in Shinjuku. It was definitely overpriced because of all the tourists. After getting a couple of drinks here, we wandered around the Kabukicho and Golden Gai areas. They were all full of tourists, but it is a super pretty area at night. We were still a little jet lagged so we retired at 11pm and went to bed. **Day 2 - Tokyo (22,775 steps) May 12th** Today, we started a bit later because of the jet lag. We started the day at Meiji Jingu and walked around the shrine and surrounding park. It was very pretty and I highly recommend going just to chill in the park. Afterwards, we headed to Odaiba. We went to go see the big Gundam at Diver City and walked around the mall. We also went to the Aqua City mall and had lunch at the ramen theme park. Finally, we went to the Tokyo Decks retro shopping street. This was super cool and we definitely could have spent more time here. However, we had a reservation at Team Lab Planets. Team Labs was really cool and I am glad we went. It was a lot shorter than I was expecting (it only took us 1.5 hours to go through it all) but the exhibits are all very interesting. We came back to our hotel to chill for a bit and then explored the area around us (Shin-Okubo). There is a large Korea town around the station and I recommend staying in the area as it is quieter than Shinjuku. We got dinner at Torikizoku (a chain Izakaya) which was really good (honestly my favorite meal of the trip) before going to bed. **Day 3 - Tokyo -&gt; Osaka (25,593 steps) May 13th** Today, we started early to go to Osaka. We took the local train to Shinagawa and then took the Shinkansen to Osaka. We also grabbed our Eki-bens at the station before the trip. You can find them pretty easily in the stations. Honestly, they are not that good (because they are cold) and I would recommend just getting some Kombini food instead. We had planned to do Nara today, but it was raining, so we went straight to our hotel to check our bags in. We decided to stay in the Dotonbori area because it was the cheapest. After we dropped our bags off, it was still raining so we went to Round 1 Osaka (the biggest in the country). The arcades in Japan are super fun and pretty cheap (if you don't go for the prize games). After spending a good amount of money to win a figure, we played a bunch of rhythm games. We came back to this Round 1 everyday during our time in Osaka because we liked the arcades so much. After spending a bit too much time and money, we checked into our hotel properly and walked around the Dotonbori area. We ate some Takoyaki and listened to the street performers. We also went to Don Quixote which was packed with tourists. Afterwards, we wandered down some of the backstreets (which were basically empty) to find some Okonomiyaki. We ended up eating at Bonkuraya which was decent. We ended the night by going back to Round1 and playing some more games. **Day 4 - Osaka and Nara (28,149 steps) May 14th** Since we were unable to go to Nara yesterday, we decided to go today. We took the special deer train (which was pure luck). We went to go see the mochi pounding at Nakatanidou but missed the scheduled show. They are approximately every hour so plan accordingly. We did eat the mochi though which was pretty good. Afterwards, we wandered around Nara park and saw Kofukuji Temple, Kasuga Taisha Shrine, and the Daibutsu. The temples were all super interesting and I definitely recommend going to Nara if its your first time in Japan. However, it is also packed with tourists and school kids. We also fed the deer who were more aggressive than I was expecting. If you don't want them to attack you, try to feed the ones without antlers (the females) as they are less aggressive. After Nara, we came back to Osaka in the evening. We walked down Shinsaibashi and went to some of the stores. In particular, the cheese tarts at Pablo were really tasty. Afterwards, we went to America Mura and got some more Takoyaki. I really loved the vibes of the America Mura area and wished that we went a bit earlier in the day (as most things closed by the time we went). We ended up getting some burgers and fries at Rich Garden which was good. We ended the day by going back to Round1 to do the SpoCha and play some more rhythm games. **Day 5 - Osaka (31,777 steps) May 15th** Today, we started off by doing a hike outside of the city. We found out about it on another trip report (which I can't find anymore, but you can find the route by googling \"The Takedao Abandoned Railway Hike\"). It starts at Namaze station and takes you to Takedao station by walking on an abandoned rail line. It was super pretty and we didn't see many people on the trail. I highly recommend it and it was our favorite activity of the trip by far. As well, at the end of the trail at Takedao station, there is a nice onsen (called Azare) which we soaked in. After soaking in the onsen, we came back to Osaka station and explored the area. In particular, we went to Nintendo Osaka, Pokemon Center Osaka, One Piece Osaka, pop-up Square Enix Store, Capcom Store which are all on one floor of a mall. The stores are really nice, but I recommend going to the ones in Shibuya (as they are tax free while Osaka is not). Afterwards, we went to Osaka Castle and walked around the park. We then came back to the Dotonbori area and wandered around again. We ended up getting dinner at Chuka-soba Fuji Namba which was the best ramen of the trip. We ended the night off by grabbing some Strong-Zeros and chilling on the roof of our hotel. **Day 6 - Osaka -&gt; Kyoto (29,000 steps) May 16th** We woke up early today to go to Kyoto. From the Dotonbori area, it takes about an hour to get to Kyoto. Our hotel in Kyoto did not let us drop off our bags, so we ended up using the coin lockers in the nearby station (which worked perfectly). After we arrived, we walked to Kiyomizudera. The temple is nice, but the whole area is packed with tourists and school kids. On the way back, we walked through Sanenzaka and Ninenzaka. We stopped by the Starbucks Machiya (which was way nicer than I was expecting) and chilled for a bit. We also went to Yasaka shrine which was a little less busy. After exploring this area, we checked into our hotel and dropped our bags off from the coin locker. Next, we decided to walk to Ippudo Tea Store as one of my friends is really into tea. They had a wide selection (which I didn't understand anything about), and he grabbed some for himself. We then went to explore the Imperial Palace. Unfortunately, by the time we got there, it was already closed (but the surrounding park is nice). At night, we explored Pontocho alley, but didn't really find anything we wanted to eat so we decided to try Coco Ichiban. The curry was alright but just tasted like garam masala. If you are good with spice, I recommend getting at least level 4 or 5. **Day 7 - Kyoto (38,046 steps) May 17th** We woke up extra early today to do Fushimi Inari. We arrived at 7:30AM and it was not too busy. We hiked the entire thing which took about 2 hours total. When we were coming back, the whole place was packed. If you want to go, I recommend going early. The shrine is also open 24/7 though, so I think a night hike could also be cool. Although it is super overhyped, I still really enjoyed Fushimi Inari and it is as pretty as the pictures make it look. After Fushimi Inari, we went to Nishiki Market. This was the best food street of the trip. There was also a lot more fish here than in Tsukiji. We had tempura, kushikatsu, and unagi. Afterwards, we went to Arashiyama to see the bamboo grove and Tenryuji temple. Honestly, Arashiyama is pretty overhyped and I don't think its worth it. There are plenty of other bamboo groves in Kyoto and Tokyo. Finally, we came back to the hotel and shipped our bags to Tokyo. Our hotel didn't have a front desk, so we did it ourselves at 7/11. It was a little bit confusing and took more time than I would have liked, but we got it done. We had a chill night and got Kaiten Sushi at Kura. The sushi in Japan is a lot better than at home and even the Kaiten sushi was good. **Day 8 - Kyoto -&gt; Hakone (18,166 steps) May 18th** We woke up early today to head to Hakone. We took the Shinkansen to Odowara station (seeing Fuji-san along the way!) and then bought the Hakone Free Pass at the station. If you want to see most of Hakone (by doing the Hakone loop) then it makes the most sense to buy it (it covers all the transportation there). Once we got the pass, we headed to Hakone shrine. The torii on the water had a massive line to take a picture, so we just looked from afar before leaving. On the way back, we found a bridge that had access to the water where you could take a super similar picture (which had no one there) so we took a photo there instead. After Hakone Shrine, we hopped aboard the pirate ship and took it across the lake to the cable cars to Owakaduni. After standing in line for a while, we were able to make it to Owakaduni to get the black eggs. They honestly just tasted like normal boiled eggs. We also grabbed lunch here at the cafe. Unfortunately, they closed off the walking path so you couldn't see much of it. Afterwards, we headed back to the city to go to our ryokan. We chilled there for the rest of the day soaking in the onsen and eating the kaiseki dinner. **Day 9 - Hakone -&gt; Yokohama -&gt; Tokyo (23,279 steps) May 19th** After a relaxing day at the ryokan, we woke up early to eat the provided breakfast. Once we stuffed ourselves, we made our way to Yokohama on the local trains. We wandered around Cosmo world (an amusement park) while making our way to the cup noodle museum. We got a reservation for the make your own cup noodle experience (which was about 1.5 hours later), and decided to wander around Yokohama a bit more. We went to the red brick warehouse which was full of western themed shops. We also saw an impromptu car show which was pretty interesting. There were a lot of chinese EV's which we don't see at home. Once our reservation time came, we went back to the cup noodle museum to do the DIY experience. It was honestly much cooler than I was expecting and I highly recommend the experience. Yokohama was pretty cool and I wish we spent more time here. But, after the cup noodle experience, we made our way to Asakusa in Tokyo to check into our hotel. After checking in, we saw that the Sanja Matsuri was happening so we wandered around there. This redeemed our earlier matsuri experience in Asakusabashi. It was crazy how much fighting there was (I highly recommend watching some YouTube videos, I did not expect to see the yakuza there). After eating the standard matsuri food (yakisoba, choco-banana, okonomiyaki) and watching the precession, we chilled at our hotel and spent some time on the rooftop garden. We had a perfect view of the SkyTree and Senso-ji so we spent a lot of time up here over the coming days. **Day 10 - Tokyo (25,745 steps) May 20th** Now that we entered the final days of our trip, it was time to go shopping. We are all huge anime fans, so we dedicated the entire day to Akhibara. Most of the stores open up at 10AM, so we arrived then. We spent the entire day here, making this the most expensive day of our trip. Here is the list of all the stores we visited: Yodobashi Camera (massive electronics store), Ed-on (electronics store), Mandarake Complex (anime megaplex), Animate (general anime goods), Super Potato (retro video game store), Book off (second hand store), Mulan Akiba (figure store), Akiba Culture Zone (figure and second store), Astop (second hand figure store), M's (look it up), Galleria (PC gaming store). We also visited a couple of smaller interesting stores (like a store dedicated to VTubers) we saw along the way, but I can't find them on google maps. After spending all day in Akhibara, we ended the day off by getting Tsukemen at Mendokoro Wakamusha Asakusa and doing Karaoke. We also did a nightime stroll through Sensoji which was very aesthetic at night (and also empty!). **Day 11 - Tokyo (26,506 steps) May 21st** Today, we went to Shibuya to do some more shopping. We participated in the scramble and saw Hachiko. Then, we walked around and hit the stores we were interested in: One Piece Store, Nintendo Store, Pokemon Center, Tokyu Hands, Tower Records, and Don Quixote. We also stopped for lunch at Royal Host (a family restaurant). After Shibuya, we went to Ikebukuro to visit Sunshine City mall. We visited the Pokemon Center, Moe Garden (Ghibli Store), and the Disney store. **Day 12 - Tokyo (34,644 steps) May 22nd** This was our last full day in Japan. We went to Kappabashi street in Asakusa to buy a couple of chef knives. There are a lot of interesting cookware stores and you can try a bunch of different types of knives here. Once we acquired our goods (which took a while), we went to Ueno Park to visit the museums. We ended up visiting the Natural History Museum which was alright. If you have been to a big natural history museum already, there is not much that is unique here. I wish we had done the Tokyo National Museum instead (as it seems to be more unique to Japan). After the museum, we grabbed lunch at Ichiran. The ramen was better than I was expecting, but it tasted fairly standard. I definitely preferred the more local places we went to. To grab our final souvenirs, we went to Tokyo Station. However, there was not much that was unique here. Everything that is here, you can also find at the airport, so I would not recommend going just for the souvenirs. We also grabbed kakigori nearby which was worth the hype. We cleaned up our souvenir shopping by going to the Don Quixote in Asakusa to grab the snacks we forgot earlier. We also grabbed dinner at Yayoi Tonkatsu which was very good and homely. **Day 13 - Tokyo -&gt; Home (9,485 steps) May 23rd** Today was our final day in the city. Our flight was at 4pm, so we spent the morning walking around Senso-ji. The contrast between visiting at night and in the day was insane (as it was SUPER busy in the day). We visited a local arcade for our last rhythm game fix and then hopped on the train to the Narita airport. After clearing security, there are a lot of souvenirs shops so we did our final shopping here. A lot of the foods I was looking for (unique Kit Kats, Royce chocolate, unique Black Thunders) were all here, so I recommend saving a bit of space to pick them up here. After shopping around, it was time to hop aboard and come back to LAX, ending our trip. **Tips and Things We Wish We Knew** * When you are going to the arcades, you should grab an arcade card. While they sell multiple, the one that pretty much all the games is the Nimo (or Bandai Passport). The other cards are much less used (I only found 2 games which didn't accept my Nimo card). The card will track your progress, let you skip tutorials, and sometimes gives you a free play too. You can normally find a vending machine somewhere which will let you buy one for 300 yen. * For clothing, pretty much everything is 1 size smaller (Japanese M = American S). As well, most stores (including the Uniqlo Flagship) only carry up to Japanese XL (American L). If you are fat (like me), you will have to order online and then pick up at the store. It is a pretty easy process, but make sure you order at least a week in advance of your pick up date (as it takes time to ship from the warehouse to your pick up store). We didn't know this so I was unable to get clothes. * For souvenirs, pretty much all the Nintendo Stores, Pokemon Centers, and Don Quixote carry the same things. I would recommend going to the ones in Shibuya as it has the only Tax-Free Pokemon Center and the largest Don Quixote in Tokyo. None of the Nintendo Stores are tax free so you can visit any of them. Also, for snacks, the airport has all the big souvenirs (like Tokyo Banana), so you can buy them there before your flight back. * For the coin lockers, the process is super simple. You find an open one, put your stuff in, then go to the main tablet to tap your Passmo and pay. When you come back, tap your Passmo at the main tablet, and it will unlock your locker. * For luggage sending, if your hotel doesn't do it for you, you can do it at pretty much and 7/11 or Family Mart. Ask the cashier for Yamato Takyu-bin, they will give you a form to fill out. For the receiver, fill out the address as it shows up in google maps (and put the hotel's phone number). We were told to write the receiver address in Kanji so just try your best :). For the sender, put the hotel you are staying at (and use your phone number). * For Karaoke, the machines generally have an English song option so you can type in the song and find it. If you want to sing Japanese songs, you have to type in the Katakana for the song, so make sure you know how to type it in Katakana. Also, the lyrics are only displayed in Katakana so you should pull up the Romanized version on your phone. **Overall Thoughts and What We Would Do On a Second Trip** We all loved our trip to Japan and definitely want to come back. However, there are some places we would not visit again or spend less time in. * All of us loved Osaka the most and wish we spent more time here. As well, there are a lot of small cities near the main Osaka city so you can take a lot of day trips from here. Instead of 3 days, we wish we spent a week here. * Kyoto was alright. While it was definitely good for the first time, we don't think we would come back because it is just so packed with tourists. We wish we took day trips here from Osaka (rather than staying overnight for 2 days). * Nara was similar to Kyoto. It was good for our first trip, but its just too packed for us. I don't think we would come back here. * Hakone also has a massive amount of tourists. While it is very pretty, I wish we went to a different countryside area instead (like in north Japan). * Tokyo is massive and you can spend infinite time here if you wanted. If you have any extra days, I would recommend you just stay in the city. * In general, we enjoyed the things that were off the beaten path (like the abandoned railway hike) more than the standard tourist fair. **Costs** Here is the cost breakdown for the trip. I used a conversion rate of 155 YEN = 1 USD * Flights: $1071.3 * Hotels: $535.69 * Shinkansen: $152.08 * Local Trains: 19,500 YEN = $125.81 * Food: 52,986 YEN = $341.85 * Activities: 23,430 YEN = $151.16 * Souvenirs: 70,984 YEN = $457.96 * Misc: 4,354 YEN = $28.09 My total cost for the trip was $2863.94. I definitely bought a couple more souvenirs than I needed (and spent a bit too much money at the arcades), but the yen is really weak right now. In total, I got 7 figures, 8 plushies, 2 knives, a switch game, and a whole bunch of snacks so I got my money's worth at least."}
{"id": "0090", "text": "edit: added photos! Heres my little contribution back to the community whose shared knowledge I have made use of for some time. I took a 2.5 week trip to Japan at the end of May this year with the goal of completing the Kumano Kodo pilgrimage. There were two distinct halves to this trip. The Nakahechi week long thru hike of the Kumano Kodo followed by a chill out week in Tokyo. I'll share my Tokyo report if there's interest. For context, this is my 6th trip to Japan and 2nd solo one. I am a middle aged man from the United Kingdom with what I consider average fitness. **Pre-trip notes** * Bookings were all made in January to get the best prices. For the Kumano Kodo, thats the minimum lead time I would suggest because accommodation options are very limited in these remote villages. I met hikers that booked in April who had to shuttle back and forth between the larger towns to each days hiking start points on public buses because there was no accommodation left. * I used the Tanabe City Tourism Bureau to book the entire itinerary of the hike and simply purchased train tickets direct from JR and pre/post hotels on Booking.com. I opted for accommodations that also provided all meals on the hike where possible (with lunch being a bento that you eat on your hike). Unlike in the big cities, combinis arent always round the corner in rural Japan and even when they are, arent always open when you want them to be! I also opted to have a daily luggage shuttle service so that I only had to carry the essentials each day. * I prepared in the preceding months at home with hikes and walks (16km+ each time) with a laden pack. Having read about the different styles of climbs in Japan versus everywhere else, I also took to long sessions on stair climber machines at the local gym for 45 - 60 min stints (getting stared at for hogging them as a result). * I took the cheapest open jaw option from London to Osaka flying Air China transiting via Shanghai outbound and Tokyo-Beijing inbound. This was \\~250 cheaper than a direct flight but added a lot more stress and discomfort. Online check-in was not available (perhaps because my ticket was not purchased directly from Air China) plus their website is horrendously broken at the best of times. Inflight entertainment was limited and transiting in Chinese airports was more laborious than any of my previous transit experiences in the US or Europe. Picky eaters beware as meal options always had meat in them so prebook yours. That said, the ground and onboard service staff were excellent at all times. * I would never have considered this option if European airlines were permitted to fly over Russia (and thus have a shorter flight time and cost). I woudl not take this option again unless the savings are even greater. * With the savings, I added in a 2 day buffer in Osaka to get over jetlag and any other unexpected delays, and that turned out to be the right decision as we shall see. **Day 1 - Osaka** Upon arriving at KIX, I was notified by the ground staff that my checked bag with all my hiking equipment did not make it to Japan as it was flagged as a problem in Shanghai. This despite signing a waiver in Shanghai that my bags can be inspected without my presence and it had a TSA approved combo lock. I had to have a PIR form completed and provide the combination lock number and hope it arrived in time for the start of my hike. Kansai Airport has a reputation of having never lost a passengers bag in its entire history and they werent about to break that record on my account so I did eventually get it back on the eve of my hike 2 days later. But by that time, I have already wasted half a day scouting for replacement clothes and gear instead of sightseeing! Forms filled, I set up base in Namba at WBF Motomachi. Fantastic price with free breakfast and great location. Just a street away from the now social media famous Yasaka Jinja and 5-10 mins walk from the transport and shopping hub of Namba. The free breakfast wasnt great but Id happily stay there again for that price point. Had japanese italian at Spaghetti no Pancho and loved it. Then turned down the wrong street lined on both sides by maid cafe girls soliciting customers (just me at that time) in the dark. Creeped me out! **Day 2 - Osaka** Went to the nearest koban and filed a police report as required by my insurer. Staffed by two officers, one older and one younger officer. The older man spoke no english at all but the younger gentleman could to a certain extent. Ultimately, google translate was the life saver here. I had to provide an itemised list of items in my lost suitcase, where and when it was lost and where I was staying at and they typed up a report all in Japanese, had me sign it and then issued a receipt with a case number and said theyll be in touch with the hotel if theres any news. All in, it took me about 40 minutes. An interesting experience and an official case receipt as a souvenir. Bought a 1-day metro pass and visited the Museum of Oriental Ceramics (beautiful!), lunched at Onigiri Gorichan (seasonal items were great), Osaka Museum of Housing and Living + special exhibition gallery. I think kids would really enjoy this small little hands-on museum. I certainly did. Then to Shinseikai (very touristy) and then a Mega Donki (very touristy and somewhat dodgy feeling neighbourhood with lots of pachinko parlours) Bumped into a reality TV or youtuber crew filming some sort of Amazing Race like show on the metro. Raised a few eyebrows when they held up the train for all their team members to get on board and then proceeded to speak loudly and film in the carriage. Overtourism comes in many forms! **Day 3 - Osaka / Kii-Tanabe** Checked out and made a final phone call to KIX to check on the status of my lost bag and they confirmed that they have it and it will meet me when I arrive at my next accommodation in Tanabe. Relieved, I did not follow through with the more expensive purchases and kept what Ive purchased unopened with a plan of returning them when I returned to Osaka (spoiler alert: they did not accept my returns). Had a late breakfast in a kissaten, walked around Abeno Harukas and Tennoji park, then found a cheapo bento in the basement supermarket of Tennoji station, hopped onto the Kuroshio to Kii Tanabe. Got a green car upgrade for not very much extra and thought it was worth it. The views got progressively more picturesque as we left Osaka for the coastline of Wakayama (sit on the right side outbound, left side inbound for the best views). Arrived at Kii-Tanabe, the starting point for most hikers, in 2.5 hours Checked into my guest house and walked around the main street and browsed the information centre before experiencing the golden hour at Tokei Jinja with no one else in sight. A stark contrast to Osaka! Stumbled upon a cosy tempura restaurant in the Ajikoji entertainment district of town. Sitting at the bar and ordering tempura a la carte was a very fun experience. Everything was fresh and delicious and I stuffed myself silly thanks to the lovely couple running the place. **Day 4 - Kumano Kodo Hike - Tanabe to Chikatsuyu** Started bright and early with a wonderful Japanese breakfast of fish, rice and assorted side dishes and handed my lunch bento as we finished eating (the same pattern would repeat itself for the next 5 days). Took the next available bus to Takajiri Oji, the official start of the Nakahechi route with many fellow hikers. I noted that the Takajiri Oji information centre stocked a small selection of key hiking gear such as hats, poles, and rain jackets for the unprepared or perhaps the spontaneous? Got myself a japanese stamp booklet (100 yen) to complement the dual pilgrimage stamp booklet (free from Tanabes information centre but not available here). Offered a brief prayer at the shrine, collected my first stamp and started climbing. Ive not been on a hike that had such a demotivating start. Its a straight up 45 minute winding climb up stone steps surrounded by dense growth without much to see. Gradually, the climbing eased up and I began to understand why this was worthy of world heritage status. I started to see (ahem) the forest for the trees. I could smell it too. And hear it! It was a multi-sensory wonder that I thoroughly enjoyed till the end in Nachsan 5 days later. Had lunch at the viewpoint and community rest stop in the idyllic village of Takahara. This was one of the few spots where day trippers in vehicles and hikers crossed paths on the Kumano Kodo. There was even a lady selling gourmet coffee out of her van that day. After lunch, I descended through a lovely stretch of the trail dotted with old tea house ruins, lush fern covered valleys and streams and bamboo groves. I arrived in Chikatsuyu 18km and 7 hours later. Checked in to Guesthouse Housen and was stunned by the luxurious hotpot dinner laid out for me by my hosts. Watched local news with them over dinner and was duly informed that Ewiniar, the first typhoon of the year, would be skirting Japan over the next few days and bring heavy rains and some winds to Wakayama. I decided to cut out the first 14km of the planned hike and instead start from Hosshinmon Oji and add on the short Dainichi-goe to get to my accommodation for the night. It was disappointing news as it threw my pilgrimage stamp collection plans into disarray. **Day 5 - Kumano Kodo Hike - Chikatsuyu to Hongu** Got a lift to the towns bus stop and soon found out that many other hikers had also changed their minds and the bus was standing room only by the time it got to Hongu / Hosshinmon Oji. The hike took on a different but nonetheless beautiful aspect in the pouring rain. This section, being marked as the easiest and most accessible, was also more crowded with day walkers. Nevertheless, even the easy paths turned into streams in this weather and I got progressively wetter with each passing kilometre and ended up at the Hongu Taisha main shrine completely soaked. Hongu Taisha was cool and regal in black. Despite being the main shrine of the Kumano sect, its not as big or ornate as many of the other big names in Tokyo or Kyoto. In fact, none of the three main shrines of Hongu, Nachi, and Hayatama were! All were understated and blended in with the natural beauty around them. Got the obligatory stamp, bought a special dual pilgrim amulet and then headed over to the info centre across the road to dry off and have lunch. With the rain easing off, I walked through the painfully beautiful rice fields leading to the worlds largest torii gate and on to Dainichi-goe mountain pass to the Yunomine Onsen area and then onwards to Wataze and Kawayu Onsen where my ryokan was. I had totally underestimated how difficult this 2km stretch of the hike was from the map and elevation guide. There is no respite on this section and no rewarding view to speak of at the top. It was step after wet step after wet step in the gloom and if you dared stop, youll be set upon by mosquitoes and other biting insects. I arrived at Sansuikan Midori-ya in such a state that I was embarrassed to check in at this prim and proper ryokan. I must have reeked! They dont take in many hikers and my fellow guests appear to be on coach tours (domestic and international). This was the most expensive accommodation per/night Ive booked on this entire trip and it was so worth it. The river view rooms are incredible, with a panoramic and unhindered view of the river and the forest across it. The hotel also has its own hot spring baths and its outdoor one is right on the riverbed itself. **Day 6 - Kumano Kodo Hike - Side-trip to Shingu** The typhoon stuck around the next day so I decided against more hiking and decided to bus it to Shingu to visit Hayatama Taisha instead. Shingu is a sleepy town by the coast and one popular activity was to take a traditional boat ride as part of the pilgrimage to get to Shingu. You will need to pre book your seat on the boat beforehand or theyll not take you. And in this unpredictable weather, I saw a couple get on the bus all the way to the start point before being told that the trip was cancelled. And the next return bus was not for another hour. The wind and rain get a bit too ridiculous for any form of sightseeing so I returned to the ryokan early and enjoyed the outdoor bath one more time just before the swollen river overwhelmed it. It remained inaccessible the following day when I checked out. **Day 7 - Kumano Kodo - Hongu to Koguchi** This remains my favourite leg of the hike. The typhoon had moved on, the waters had receded and temperatures were in the low 20s c and the air was clear and fresh. I made it to Koguchi village by lunch time and realised that theres only one village shop and no restaurants or cafes at all. Scored some buns and fruit and sat outside for lunch. Run by a lovely lady who offered me fresh green tea as I ate. Thats omotenashi for you! Checked into Shizen no Ie, the former school turned hostel and chilled out for the rest of the day in the peaceful surroundings. **Day 8 - Kumano Kodo - Koguchi to Nachisan** This last leg was advertised as the toughest leg of the entire route but I thought it was only moderately difficult terrain wise with a very long upward climb with an elevation gain of 1km over a single 4km stretch followed by a fairly gentle 10km descent into Nachi. There arent many stamps to collect on this leg but the views were just as beautiful as any of the previous days. I arrived in Nachisan after 6 hours and mingled with day trippers and tour groups around Nachi shine and falls. I did more souvenir shopping, before calling it a day at the only hotel in the area. **Day 9 - Kumano Kodo - Nachisan, Kii-Katsuura, Osaka** Wrapped up the hike with a stroll up and down Daimon-zaka to look at old growth (and giant) cedars. Its probably the only part of the Kumano Kodo that most visitors will get to experience and I think thats a real shame after what Ive seen over the last few days. There's so much more to it than this! I took in one last look around the base of Nachi Falls, checked out and bussed into Kii-Katsuura. This is a town with many seafood themed shops and restaurants centred around the port area. It even has a public foot bath by the port looking out to the sea. Had 2nd breakfast in patisserie Fukusukedou Sweet but I wasn't impressed. Did get an excellent ramen lunch set at Rio Ramen before taking the train back to Osaka. Incidentally, I found out that the train from Katsuura stops briefly at the town of Taji where the infamous dolphin hunts still take place each year. After 4.5 hours on the train, checked in at APA Hotel Tennoji Ekimae - the smallest business hotel Ive been in so far. I finished the day with a celebratory dinner of fancy tonkatsu at KYK in Abeno Harukas and retired to plan for my following week in Tokyo. **Post hike notes** * Mont Bell is a great place to shop for outdoor gear. Id say its a little more upmarket than Decathlon. Id consider it the Japanese equivalent of REI or AS Adventure. * Since my luggage did eventually show up, I left my emergency purchases untouched with the intention of returning them when I got back to Osaka. But it turns out that Japanese return policies are terrible, even more so when you pay by card. Different branches of the same company refused to accept my return and said I have to go to the exact store I bought the item from to get it returned. This was true for Mont Bell, Donki, Uniqlo. * There are many youtube videos that feature some or all of the hiking experience of the Kumano Kodo. I would encourage you to NOT view them if you intend to take this trip yourself. You should experience it first hand. * The Tanabe citys tourism bureau is a great planning resource and their booking tool for all things Kumano Kodo is great value for money. I spoke to other hikers and those that used a tour company paid double what I did for the same self guided itinerary (rail, room and board). * Much has been written about Ghibli movies taking their inspiration from England but after my time in Wakayama, I have come to understand that the true essence of their films is indelibly Japanese. I could see, hear and smell Nausicaa, Totoro, Mononoke and Ponyo on this journey! The mountains, hills and forests are unique to Japan in every sense. It teems with life and spirit. The ryokan even had a little warning in my room advising guests against leaving the windows open at night as the place is overflowing with nature! I hope this report may be of some help to you if youre looking to do something a little different from most visitors to Japan. Happy to answer questions about specific bits of the logistics and the hike in comments. Do let me know if I should bother writing up on my Tokyo leg of this trip."}
{"id": "0091", "text": "So, finally, my SO and I back home after an exciting Japanese Vacation. It was on our bucket list for years and we are so glad we did it and it went smoothly. We landed at Narita Airport at 7 AM and finished our immigration and customs by 7.45 AM. We bought our Passmo Passport from Keisei Information Centre in literally two mins without a queue and were in the three persons queue at the Limousine Bus stop for our airport transfer to Shinjuku. I highly suggest the Limousine Bus Service as it was the most convenient and comfortable ride from NRT Airport to Shinjuku. The staff speaks English and put your luggage in the storage compartment, without you to have to worry about it. You can buy the tickets of limousine bus on KLOOK or at the arrivals hall of NRT airport. From Shinjuku stop where the limousine bus dropped us and handed our luggage to us, we took a taxi to our hotel. It costed us 1200 yen and 10 mins to our hotel in Nishi Shinjuku. We had typed the hotel name and address in Japanese and printed it out. That piece of paper proved very useful after a 12 hour flight and 2 hour bus ride. We just handed out the printed paper to our taxi driver and he dropped us off at our hotel without a single word exchanged between us except thank you (arigato gozaimasu). It took away the anxiety of explaining our hotel address to taxi drivers in English and broken Japanese. Our hotel was APA Hotel &amp; Resort NishiShinjuku Gochome Eki Tower. We had booked an early check in for additional payment of 1000 yen per hour. We reached our double room on higher floor with city view and were shocked by the size of it. NO AMOUNT of research and reading up could mentally prepare us for the size of it. It was TINYYYYYYYY. But, very well appointed with night suits, kimono robes, room slippers, onsen slippers, huge TV, small bath tub, king size bed, working station with a chair, etc. We soon found our groove in the tiny room and found it to be very comfortable once the luggage was under the bed. I would highly recommend this hotel as it has an onsite onsen, swimming pool (payable), speedy WiFi, English speaking staff, vending machines, laundromat, luggage storage and transfer facility. But, its biggest plus point is that its 100 mts away from the NishiShinjuku Gochome Station with an elevator exit. That was the most convenient for us. After relaxing in the tiny room for about 3 hours, we left the hotel at 2 PM for Meiji Jingu Shrine. We used the subway for it and it was very convenient. We thoroughly enjoyed the peaceful zen walk into the forest like atmosphere to reach the shrine. It was completely empty barring three more people about 1 km ahead of us. When we reached the Meiji Jingu Shrine we were greeted by a crowd. We spent maximum of 30 mins in the shrine and then walked to Takeshita Street. It was a 15 min relaxed walk and we enjoyed it. We LOVED the Takeshita Street and the hustle bustle there, spent around two hours, shopping for street wear fits and eating the crepes and tanghulu sweet treats. From there we walked the Cat Street, which was almost deserted and we didnt even realise that we had already finished walking the iconic Cat Street until we asked a local. From Cat Street we walked to Shibuya, it was a 25 minutes walk and I had started to feel the tiredness by now. We found a Tullys Cafe about 5 mins away from Shibuya crossing and chilled there for one hour having coffee and smoothies. We reached the Shibuya Crossing by 6.30 PM and the excitement to see thousands of people crossing the iconic junction had pumped the energy back into me and I was ready for more exploring. We took a look at the Hachiku Statue and made our way up to Shibuya Sky for our entry slot of 7 PM. It was the most magical moment when we took the elevator up to the open observatory deck. The sky was turning red and rust and the Tokyo skyline lights were just firing up. We saw the sunset for about 15 minutes before the sky turned dark and then we enjoyed the night light views of Tokyo. It was absolutely STUNNING. Highly recommend booking the 6.45-7 PM slot for Shibuya Sky. We booked it via KLOOK about one month in advance. We got down from Shibuya Sky by 8.30 PM and although we had a reservation at a vegan restaurant at Shinjuku for 9 PM, I personally couldnt last any longer. I was extremely tired by that time so we took a subway back to our hotel. We rested in the hotel and had Seven Eleven ice cream and onigiri for dinner in our room and rested till about 11 PM. At around 11 PM my FOMO kicked in and my partner and I took a cab to Omoide Yakucho drinking lane. It took us 8 mins by cab and 1000 yen. We had a local beer at the Albatross bar there and we loved the atmosphere and experience. We explored some more places in that lane but Albatross Bar was the best vibe. We then walked to Hotel Gracery to see the Godzilla head and Shinjuku neon billboards and lights. We found the area super greasy but it had a vibe of its own. We walked a bit further and found a nice beer brewery and bar and had a few beers there and it was amazing. We left that place by 12.30 AM and took a taxi back to the hotel. It costed us 900 yen. All in all it was the MOST FUN and ICONIC first day of a Tokyo trip. We had clocked 22,000 steps on Day 1. Day 2: We woke up by 8 AM and left the hotel by 10 AM. We first reached the Shinjuku Gyoen National Garden and had breakfast at the traditional Japanese tea house at the national garden. We relaxed in the garden and explored till about 12.30 pm and we left for TeamLabs Planet. We reached there and booked ourself the lunch experience at Uzu Restaurant at Tokyolabs Planet. It was hands down the ABSOLUTE BEST lunch experience with the yummiest bowl of Vegan Ramen. We enjoyed the immersive experience and were ready for experiencing the main exhibit by 3.30 PM. We spent two hours in the exhibit and it was absolutely the highlight of our trip. We both lovedddddd TeamLabs Planet experience and cant wait to be back. At around 6 pm we left for Asakusa area from Teamlabs and reached the Senso Ji temple at around 6.45 pm. We explored the shopping streets around the temple and watched the sun go down behind the temple. It was just so so so so beautiful. We had dinner at a roadside restaurant there and they were plenty. My SO loved the area so much that he made me promise that we will stay in this area instead of Shibuya or Shinjuku on our next visit to Tokyo. The man has taste. We were back to our hotel by 10 PM and had drinks at our hotel bar and slept off by 12 AM. We had successfully used the subway system without getting lost but we had also successfully AVOIDED starting or ending our subway journeys from the terrifying Shinjuku Station for first two days and we highly recommend everyone to do the same. Because on Day 3 we got lost at Shinjuku station and it was NOT FUN. On day 3 we checked out of our hotel by 10 am and took the subway to Don Qui store Shinjuku (our hotel stored our luggage for us post check out). We spent 2.5 hours in Donki and other Shinjuku shopping places and while returning with our shopping bags we got lost in Shinjuku station for about an hour and I personally felt super disoriented but my SO took over the navigation and somehow we reached our hotel by 2 pm. We then took our bags and made our way to Tokyo International Cruise Terminal via subway and metro. A sweet local Japanese girl guided us to the metro stop which was two floors above from where we were and she very kindly travelled with us on the escalators two whole floors up. I had never experienced such kindness from a stranger and was truly grateful and overwhelmed by her kindness. We then embarked on our cruise ship at 3.30 PM and I will write the cruise report in the next post. But, I must say that these 2-2.5 days in Tokyo were genuinely I had dreamed of and more. Although it was tiring t walk 20k steps a day but it was more than worth it. I cant wait to be back."}
{"id": "0092", "text": "Hi all, I got so much great assistance from this board so I wanted to give back to the community. I (34F) travelled to Japan solo in May with a week on the ground (9 days including travel) from Australia, so no jet lag. I packed in a lot - I have a family with young kids at home and this was a once in a lifetime opportunity so wanted to make the most of it. For those not travelling solo the itinerary is likely less realistic, but worked great for me. I spent approximately 400,000yen for the 7 days including flights and accommodation, and approximately 100,000 of that was on souvenirs and gifts. I walked at least 30,000 steps each day (with the exception of day 1 which was around 25k + a 17km bike ride). Day 1 - Arrive 5:30am Haneda, Tokyo (Fri) * Flew into T1, but arrived a little early and had zero lines through immigration etc so decided to travel by free shuttle bus to T3 to pick up a Welcome Suica. This ended up being so worth it and making life easy. * Train to Higashi-Ginza, drop off bags. Explore Tsukiji. I recommend Tsukiji Uogashi building for food rather than the markets themselves, significantly cheaper, you can take your meal to the rooftop. * Coffee from Turret Coffee - a standout for coffee (latte) lovers). * eBike tour by Compass bikes - I am not a huge fan of tours but this was great way to see a lot in a few hours and I really loved Fukagawa Fudou-d temple which had a walkway inside that felt like it was designed by TeamLabs (no photos allowed unfortunately) * Back to Higashi-Ginza, picked up my bags and went to check in to my hotel, Dormy Inn Ueno, which was perfectly located (I loved staying in this area). * On to the Sumo Tournament for which I had purchased tickets through buysumotickets. I think my whole section had as they were all foreigners, haha! I loved this, a really different experience. * Explored Ameyokocho before calling it a night. Day 2 - Tokyo (Sat) * Up bright and early at 3am. Went to the sento, still couldn't sleep after so took the first train of the day to Asakusa. Explored Senso-ji without crowds. Back to Ueno station where I purchased tickets for the shinkansen the next day. It looks like the line gets busy so this was a good idea to do early. * Explored Ueno park, Nippori, Ueno by foot. * Back to hotel to get ready for the day, and out around 8:30am. * Train to Yoyohi where I got a coffee at Dimlight Espresso then walked through Yoyogi park/Meiji shrine area towards Takeshita St. By now it was around 10:30am and most shops online looked like they didn't open until 11am but most did seem open. I bought some socks at Tabio and then a Harajuku special crepe from Godiva on Meiji-Dori Ave (so good!). * Walked up Cat St which I loved and was much less busy than the rest of Harajuku and Shibuya. Got some sweets from Number Sugar. On to Shibuya via Miyashita Park. Shopped throughout Shibuya, but it honestly wasn't my favourite as there was just so much choice and so many people. It didn't feel unique to me (ie could have been in any country). * Train to Akihabara, which was also very busy but felt more unique. I loved Yellow Submarine where I got some board games that are made in Japan but had English instructions, and did some other light shopping for my boys. * Back to my hotel to rest and eat some gyoza I got on my way from the train station, before heading out for a 7pm localised tour of Shinjuku. Again this was good, but I think limiting doing tours works best for me as I can't take the slow pace, haha!! Day 3 - Matsumoto, Kiso, Tsumago * I took the shinkansen to Nagano in gran class which was truly amazing and worth the additional cost. I had the carriage to myself so a personal attendant, meal, slippers included and comfy reclining chair. Then took a train from Nagano to Matsumoto. * Explored Matsumoto Castle then did a tour at Ishii miso (this was OK, but a bit more of an explanation rather than tour) and visited the Art Museum (this was good for a quick visit even for someone with passing art interest). * On to Kiso for lunch and to explore, loved the foot bath. Train to Nagiso, where I walked the Nakasendo to my minshuku in Tsumago, Daikichi. Tsumago was just lovely, the people living there are just a wonderful community. Daikichi was incredible. Had a wonderful dinner and breakfast and highly recommend this sort of accommodation. Day 4 - Tsumago, Magome, Osaka * Left at 7.30am after breakfast as the weather was not great and more rain was planned as the day progressed. Loved the tea house on the way to Magome. Got in to Magome around 10am, grabbed a coffee from Hillbilly coffee and walked to Chuodo Magome to get a bus as it was a better schedule than the bus from Magome to Nakatsugawa. I don't recommend this as it was a roadhouse with only locals and felt a bit awkward haha. But, it all worked well and was actually a really comfortable trip to Nagoya. * I decided to take the slower Kintetsu Ltd Express from Nagoya to Osaka-Namba, as it was direct, and I could book a premium seat again which was a great place to rest on a rainy day. The premium seat on the Hinotori was incredible comfy (perhaps more so than the shinkansen?) and had a seat warmer function. * Explored Kuromon market, Sennichimae Doguyasuji for kitchenware, Ota St, DenDen Town, Dotonbori. Took two trains to my hotel in Kyoto, Hotel Aru. Again this was a fab hotel in a really great location, and the room was much nicer and newer than the Dormy Inn (although no sento). * Did some washing and crashed. Day 5 - Kyoto in the rain * There was a Typhoon in the Philippines today which brought with it significant rain. I had originally planned Nara but with flooding and rain inundation warnings thought I would stick close to my hotel instead. * Walked to Sentido for a coffee, then on to Kyoto Gyoen National Garden and the Kyoto Imperial Palace. This wasn't in my original itinerary but I really enjoyed it and the audio guide was really well done (and all free!). Another coffee in School Bus Coffee Stop. * Spent the rest of the day exploring the undercover shopping streets, department stores, Nishiki markets. Loved the Daimaru basement food court, the staff here were especially polite with every single one bowing and greeting me as I walked past. * Back to my hotel to dry off my feet after they had been wet for the past 14 hrs. The rain had finally eased off so I then headed out at night to explore Yasaka shrine and Gion. I saw a Maiko (who unfortunately looked quite distressed, clearly still getting harassed by tourists!). Day 6 - Kyoto * Today I made up for lost time and fit in a LOT. More than I would like realistically, I would have loved more time in Uji and Nara, I would definitely like to spend more time in that region if/when I return to Japan. * Train to Fushimi Inari, at 5:30am it was still quiet, at 6:30am it was already getting busy. I made the call at the halfway lookout point that I could probably squeeze Nara in if I left then, and tbh Fushimi Inari wasn't a standout for me. * Grabbed some breakfast at the konbini while I waited for a train to Nara. I loved Nara. Not so much the deer, or Todai-ji (both were good) but the forest beyond and places like Todaiji Nigatsudo, Kasuga Taisha. I loved taking paths where there were no other tourists. * On to Uji - bought several bags of matcha and sencha, some matcha treats, explored Byodo-in and had a matcha parfait at Tsuen overlooking the river. I would have loved to stay here longer but had a tour booking for 2pm on the other side of Kyoto (but an easy trip due to being on the same line) * 2pm tour at Matsui sake, a tiny sake house in Kyoto. The tour was great and I loved their anime branding and innovative tasting system. * The weather today was SO amazing and I really loved this area (Sakyo ward) so hired a bike from emusica edmachiyanagi and travelled north along Kamo River, exploring some temples along the way, having something to eat by the river. Rode to Circus Coffee which had the most lovely staff and I loved the branding. Explored some shopping streets, then on to Philosophers Path and returned the bike around 7:30pm. * Got a massage at which was so cheap and so good. Had a 40 min wait so I went to Donki and bought a suitcase for all my extra shopping (had travelled carry-on only). After my massage I packed and crashed. Day 7 - Kyoto, Inuyama * Got up and took the train to Kiyomizu (could have walked but my legs were sore!), then walked up to Kiyomizu-dera. I wasn't sure if I would like it as I was disappointed with Fushimi Inari but it was simply spectacular. * Explored Higashiyama then enjoyed a zen meditation session at Ryosoku-in. This was a great experience! * Back to my hotel to change and check out then lunch at Roan Kikunoi, my Michelin restaurant (\\*\\*) for the trip and a wonderful meal and experience. * Went and grabbed my bags from the hotel, taxi to train station, shinkansen to Nagoya and train to Inuyama. * Inuyama was a gorgeous little town. Nagoya has a lot less foreign visitors, and there were few signs, train announcements etc in English. I actually didn't see a non-Asian person my whole time in Nagoya (including in the airport the next day). The castle here was gorgeous and I loved the town, a great slower pace to end my trip. Day 8 - Chubu airport * There is a train without changes to chubu airport from Inuyama. Unfortunately, I had miscalculated my remaining yen so was 200 yen short for the limited express, so had to take the commuter which meant standing for 1 hr in a crowded train. The ltd express would have been better but I didn't want to get out 10,000 yen just for the train and I wasn't sure whether I could use card at the airport for fare adjustment (I could have, it turned out). * The airport was super clean and easy and not too busy. I had used points to fly SQ business which was a luxurious end to a truly incredible trip. Feel free to reach out with any questions!"}
{"id": "0093", "text": "Hello reddit community, We have just returned from a fantastic 16-day trip to Japan. Here is our experience, I hope it helps some of you with planning your trip! **Places visited** Osaka Nara Hiroshima Miyajima Himeji Kanazawa Takayama Tokyo **About us** Myself (36yr F), husband (39yr M), and our kids (10 yr old daughter &amp; 7yr old son) from Melbourne, Australia. **Likes** beautiful nature, exploring new areas, shopping, anime (husband), Pokemon (kids &amp; husband), Japanese food and culture. We went to Japan 10 years ago and visited Tokyo, Nagoya, Kyoto, Nara, &amp; Hakone, so this time we wanted to return to some of our favourite places and experience some new ones. I know this is an unpopular opinion but Kyoto was actually our least favourite place of our last trip, so we opted to skip Kyoto for this one. **May weather** We specifically chose to travel in May as we wanted to avoid the crazy crowds in the peak times and have mild weather. The weather while we were there was average 21-28 degrees celsius, perfect t-shirt and shorts weather. In 16 days we had only 3 days with rain (2 days of off and on drizzle in Takayama, and 1 day of torrential rain in Osaka). **Packing** We wanted to pack light (no suitcases, because there are so many stairs and finding lifts is time consuming and involves a lot more steps). We took 4 x backpacks (1 each) and 2 x hiking back packs (for all our clothes). Packed clothes for 5 days. I packed 2 x jumpers and 2 x pants each, but 1 each would have been fine. 1 pair of good runners each. kids took 1 teddy each. 3 of our hotels we had washing machines in our rooms, and the others had a laundry room with coin machines. I did washing 3 times. Clothing wise, Japanese people dress very conservatively, so we took that into consideration when packing. Especially because I live in activewear normally. I saw no one wearing activewear at all! **Flights** We flew from in and out of Osaka from Melbourne, which we got on sale for $575 AUD return each person **Transport** We travelled exclusively on public transport. Mostly trains, Shinkansen between major citites, trams and some buses. We found public transport to be easy to navigate, well signed in english also, and frequent. My husband broke his foot badly 1 year ago and still has issues with it, and with 2 kids in tow we always opted for getting on a train to get us closer to where we needed to be, even if it meant transferring train lines a few times. The IC cards come in super handy for this!!. We saved so many steps each day by doing this, and saved a lot of complaints from the kids about tired legs! *IC cards* - My husband and I both downloaded Suica cards in our Apple wallets on our iPhone, its super easy to do and super easy to top up. Had no problems topping up with AMEX or Mastercard that was in our apple wallet. The only issue we had with the digital cards is that you chew through so much phone battery taking pictures and videos and using google maps there were many days we were stressed about our phones dying. So make sure you always take a power bank with you just in case. *Kids IC cards* - You cant get digital kids IC cards, and our kids don't have their own phones either so I picked up 2 x kids ICOCA IC cards from the JR ticket office at Umeda station (osaka). Just make sure you have their passports with you. The kids fares are half the price of adults, so its worthwhile getting them for how much you use the trains. You can top up the cards at almost all ticket machines (cash only). *Transport passes -* We purchased the JR West Kansai-Hiroshima area pass in advance online as this worked out cheaper for our itinerary than individual tickets. I picked up the pass from the JR ticket office at Kansai Airport station. Also purchased a 1 day Osaka-metro pass (820 yen for an adult) only on one day for moving around osaka alot. You can get them from any osaka-metro station ticket machine. *Shinkansen Tickets -* I only booked our first shinkansen (Osaka - Hiroshima) in advance, online through JR west website, which i picked up at the airport station when we arrived. We booked most of the others either on the spot (No issues getting a seat), or through the Smart Ex app ( Tokyo - Osaka) We booked that one in the morning of the day we were travelling, and i'm glad we did as the train was almost full when we got on (5:47pm time). **Language** I know a little bit of Japanese ( from what i remember from learning Japanese in high school). My husband and the kids played on duolingo for a few months before hand. Most people in Osaka, Tokyo, and touristy places spoke a fair bit of english. But we tried to speak some Japanese where we could. We downloaded Google translate, and DeepL. The translation on DeepL was much better and a more accurate than google translate. The translate camera function is fantastic for shopping for food and working out how to use the washing machines etc. The Japanese people were always so happy when our kids spoke some japanese to them. **Advance bookings** *Hotels -* Some through booking .com and others direct to the hotel. We found the prices were mostly better when booking direct to the hotel *Universal Studios -* 2 months before hand. we bought express passes and studio passes. i tried to purchase through the USJ website but had no luck with it accepting our credit cards. we tried AMEX, Visa, and Mastercard. gave up and purchased through Klook. Yes you can now select times for timed entries on Klook. *DisneySea -* 1 month before. purchased through Disney site. nil issues. *TeamLab Planets -* 2 months before, through official website *Sumo -* We tried to get tickets to the sumo tournament for when we were in tokyo. We jumped online when the tickets were released, but the website crashed. After many many refreshes, when we finally got onto the site 1.5 hrs later, they were sold out for the days we could go :( **Food - Restaurants** We love good food, but don't fancy waiting in line for an hour to have an instagram hyped food. We made no bookings for restaurants, and just stopped when we saw something that looked good. It often involved a lot of walking as its difficult to get a spot for 4 people in some tiny restaurants. Street food was great! We used uber eats a few times from the hotel which was great for fussy kids, super quick and was reliable both times. the food was great too! Breakfast was mostly combini, yoghurt, smoothies, waffles. We found that department stores had great food halls (usually basement level) for takeaway with everything from sushi, salads, fried chicken, dumplings etc. A good option for groups with different tastes, affordable and a nice change from the combini food. Coffee almost everywhere was terrible. **HOTELS** ***OSAKA - May 14 - APA Umeda-Eki tower.*** A pretty standard business hotel, small. location was ok, close enough to walk from umeda station. In hindsight, I should have just booked a room at the airport hotel. kids were absolutely exhausted from the 2am wake up in Melbourne with no sleep on the plane (too excited), our daughter was in tears at the airport from exhaustion. our son finally fell asleep on the train which meant i had to carry him (25kgs) and luggage through the station and to the hotel. we got to the hotel around 10pm. (approx $220 AUD 1 x night) ***HIROSHIMA - May 15-16 - FAV HOTEL Hiroshima heiwa odori -*** Amazing! apartment style, great location, breakfast included. 2 x Queen beds in the room, washing machine and dryer. Would 100% stay here again if in Hiroshima. (approx $530 AUD 2 x nights) ***KANAZAWA - May 17-18 - Tsukuyomi Chuodori*** . A Japanese style vacation rental house. location was ok, a short bus ride to the main area, or you could walk. very quiet residential area, actually had the best sleep here out of entire trip, although it was bright at 5:00am as there is only shoji screens for window coverings. very steep staircase to the top floor, probably not suitable for very young kids or older people. (approx $330 AUD 2 x nights) ***TAKAYAMA - May 19-20 - FAV LUX Hida Takayama -*** great location. amazing apartment style 2 x queen beds + 2 x single bunk beds on top. Would 100% stay here again (approx $560 AUD 2 x nights) ***TOKYO - May 21 - 25 - Mimaru Asakusa Station -*** location is 10/10!! literally next to the subway line, food, shopping on the door step, sensoji temple like 200mtrs away. Apartment style 1 x queen bed and 2 x single bunks. This may also be an unpopular opinion but you don't need to be near the Yamanote line in Tokyo. it was so easy to transfer to anywhere you want to go in Tokyo, the stations and different subway lines are so well signed and colour coded. I have stayed in Shinjuku and Tokyo station area before, and I would definitely stay in Asakusa again over those areas. (approx $1650 AUD 4 x nights) ***OSAKA - May 26-30 - Randor suites Namba -*** Location was great! right next to a subway line, literally 3 doors down. Or a 950mtr walk to shinsaibashi. Was a whole apartment, huge for Japan. We shared this with my Sister in-law and her 2 boys (aged 10 and 12) who joined us in Tokyo for the last half of the trip. (approx $1450 AUD 4 x nights (our share about $800 AUD for 4 x nights) **BUDGET** We didnt really set a specific budget as we had been saving for a while. All up in total, with absolutely everything ...flights, tickets, trains, food, accomm, shopping. It cost approx $16,000 AUD for a family of 4 people (1,600,000Yen). \"Santa\" got the kids new wallets and 10,000 yen each for xmas, so it was nice for them to work out what they wanted to spend their own money on. **DAY 1 - OSAKA - tues 14th May** **12,221 steps** Flight from Melbourne - Osaka arrived 7pm Through customs, baggage, JR tickets, got a 8:46pm (with 2 mins to spare) JR Haruka to Umeda (covered by the rail pass but you need a reserved ticket, which i got from the JR office when picking up the passes). **DAY 2 HIROSHIMA - wed 15th May** **18,787 steps** I had booked a 1220 shinkansen from osaka to hiroshima. Which meant we had time for a restful slow morning ( only 1 hour time difference from Melbourne, so no issues with jet lag). We went to the Daimaru umeda and the pokemon centre, nintendo and some other shops, grabbed a bento box and on the shinkansen. We took our bags with us to the shops as we didn't want to trek back to the hotel. An easy tram transfer and 600mtr walk to the hotel. We had a refresh at the hotel and then walked to the peace Museum. Entry is free for kids and 200Y for adults, a must if in Hiroshima! it was busy in some parts as we were there around 4pm but have never been somewhere with so many people and so much silence. Followed by a walk around the peace park and atomic bomb dome. You dont need to be into war history to enjoy Hiroshima. The whole area has the most amazing peaceful vibe. If I lived in Japan, Hiroshima is where it would be! Dinner at Okonomi-mura. Delicious hiroshima style okonomiyaki. get there early, most places were sold out by 7pm. **DAY 3 MIYAJIMA DAY TRIP - thurs 16th May** **23,589 steps** Opted to catch the tram to Miyajima ferry station, which was longer, but cheaper and meant we didn't need to transfer at the station, and also so we could see a bit more of the area out the window. you dont need to book the ferry in advance just get a ticket at the dock ( ours was covered by the JR area pass, still need to pay a 100Y tax for adults) ferry ride is about 10mins. We just walked through the streets poking in shops, eating some street food. The whole area is really beautiful and was busy but not over crowded. we wanted to ride the ropeway up to Mt Misen but when we got the the ropeway station it was closed due to strong winds. I was keen to go up so my hubby took the kids back into town and i did the 2.5km walk up the mountain to the look out. Do not attempt this unless you have a relative level of physical fitness, what starts as a nice meandering path following the river and waterfalls, quickly turns into 2km of stone steps up the mountain. it took me a bit over an hour to walk up and the view at the top is incredible. the trip down was much quicker, just be careful if you have bad knees. we left about 4:30 as we promised the kids we'd go to the pokemon centre. Went back to the hotel and got some uber eats for dinner, delicious ramen and gyoza \\* Mine and my hubby's favourite day of the trip\\* \\* Felt like we needed to 1 extra day in the Hiroshima \\* **DAY 4 - TRAVEL TO KANAZAWA VIA HIMEJI - fri 17th May** **12,993 steps** checked out of the hotel and took our luggage to 7-11 to transfer to our hotel in takayama 3 days later so that we could do our himeji and shirakawago stops on the way. we managed to stuff everything into 1 hiking pack and cost $25AUD to send. we kept 2 days of clothes with us in our backpacks. booked a shinkansen to himeji at the station immediately prior to travelling (covered by the pass). Walked around himeji castle, its beautiful. we didn't go inside as we were a bit pushed for time as we needed to check into our house by 7pm in kanazawa. but its worth the stop if its on your way. Our JR passes covered the trip to Tsuruga where we transferred to the shinkansen to kanazawa. We booked this on the spot and it was not busy. got to our house at 6:15pm, got some dinner recommendations from the house host and ordered through uber eats. hubby and i had curry kastu (kanazawa specialty) and got the kids some chicken and chips from a different place both delicious. **DAY 5 - KANAZAWA - sat 18th May** **20,719 steps** We had lots of plans for the day, but our daughter was sick (vomiting) (she had a chest infection from when we left home) so we had aborted our mission and went back to the house, kids watched a movie on the ipads with hubby, and i went for a walk to the supermarket. I had fun browsing all the food for 1.5 hours. After lunch we went to Kenrokuen. The kids hated it, complained it was too hot and asked if we were ready to leave the whole time. it is a lovely large garden that is so well kept. However, we felt it lacked any real feeling (if that makes any sense). We had some obligatory gold leaf ice-cream at $10AUD each (Nothing to write home about, but of course its a good photo op). We skipped the market and the old district as our daughter was still feeling sick and hot, and opted for some shopping at kanazawa station. Of course pokemon centre. We enjoyed wandering the shops here for a few hours, got some happy pancakes, and dumplings on the top floor for dinner. \\* side note, buses in kanazawa only take cash ( No IC cards, except the loop bus takes IC) **DAY 6 TRAVEL TO TAKAYAMA - Sun 19th May** **15,910 steps** We got up early to get the first bus to Shirakawago around 8:00am. Although we didn't realise you need to reserve seats for this bus. I went to the counter and the first available bus was not until 1pm as the others were booked out. Also all the buses from Shirakawago to Takayama were booked out for the day. So we had to change plans and we jumped on a train to Toyama and then the limited express to Takayama. it was a 4min change over so we raced to the other platform and jumped in a non-reseved car. it was Packed, my son had to sit on my lap. The train ride is about 1.5 hours and absolutely stunning scenery. we arrived in Takayama, thinking we could tap our IC cards, but NO! No IC cards in takayama. luckily we paid the fare at the ticket window. however, we could only pay the Toyama to Takayama fare as they are different train line companies. Our IC cards, still said \"In transit\" so we had to fix that up when we went back to Toyama and pay the fare that we missed from not tapping off in Toyama. We learnt that it was super busy with tourists in Takayama so we booked our express train back to Toyama and the shinkansen to tokyo then at the station for the Tuesday. Checked into the hotel \" our bags from hiroshima were there waiting\" walked around the streets of takayama, grabbed some dinner at a soba place and headed back to the hotel for an early night. **DAY 7 TAKAYAMA - Mon 20th May** **10,939 steps** Walked to the morning market, had some hida beef sushi (AMAZING), Midarashi dango (salty dango, YUM!) the most amazing criossants, poked in the shops around the old town area. kids fed the Koi and trout in the river. ate the most amazing cotton candy from a little shop. tasted sake from a brewery. Dinner at Suzuya (amazing, best meal of the trip, hida beef sukiyaki!!!) get there early! we were there at 5:10pm and already a big line in front of us. They wont serve any one after 6:30pm. we booked a spa and sauna room for 7-9pm at the hotel so headed back to relax. **\\*** Saw lots of lovely souvenirs, engraved chopsticks, holders etc that in hindsight i should have bought in Takayama...but i thought i'll wait until Tokyo because it will be cheaper there... but I just didn't find many nice souvenir shops in Tokyo or Osaka, or we would have had to go out of the way to go there. **DAY 8 TRAVEL TO TOKYO - Tues 21st May** **11,209 steps** Took the 11:07 limited express back to Toyama and the shinkansen to Ueno. We arrived at the hotel in Asakusa around 4pm. Dropped off bags at the hotel and headed to Sensoji, the area around the markets and temple was packed. We met up with my hubbys sister and her 2 kids (they had the room next to us at the hotel) we walked down the street and found a teppanyaki okonomiyaki restaurant that could seat 7 people. The food was yummy, although they mustnt have trusted us with the kids to cook our own food as they cooked it all for us downstairs and bought it up already cooked. We went to the sky tree for yet another pokemon store. **DAY 9 TOKYO EAST SIDE wed 22nd May** **21,732 steps** Exploring and shopping Shibuya, Harajuku and Shinjuku. We went through Shibuya scramble, wandered the streets and shops of Shibuya and Harajuku, looking at shoes, cosmetics, gacha, anime. We had dinner at TGI Fridays in Harajuku, mainly because we could fit all 7 of us together and there was something on the menu that everyone would eat, the food is as you would expect (we found it difficult to find places suitable for everyone as my SIL is vegetarian, her son is super fussy (has autism, will not eat new foods), and our son is fussy too). We then jumped on the train and headed to Tokyo metropolitan government building in shinjuku, its great for the free observation deck and light show. The light show runs for 15mins every half hour from 7pm. **DAY 10 TOKYO DISNEY SEA Thurs 23rd May** **31, 464 steps** One of the only days we set an alarm for the whole trip. Caught a train from Asakusa at 7:15am and arrived about 8:10, grabbed a coffee from starbucks there and headed in. The line was already massive. We got through the gates around 9:20. This is everything we did **Journey ** first ride of the day went straight there 45min wait *9/10* **Indiana Jones ** 40^(th) anniversary pass *9/10* **Tower of terror ** DPA * 8.5/10* **Raging spirits ** single rider line, 20 min wait *6/10* **Soaring ** DPA, *10/10* amazing, we dont have anything like this in Australia so we were all blown away, even the kids **20,000 leagues under the sea ** 40^(th) anniversary pass *6/10* **Toy story ** DPA *7/10* **Jasmines flying carpet** 5 min wait *4/10* **Jumpin jelly fish** ****** 20 min wait, just the kids went on, they said it was boring **Flounder coaster ** 10 min wait, surprisingly good for a little kid coaster, took my daughter on it again at the end of the day while the others went on Indiana again as she wouldnt do any of the bigger rides **Believe sea of dreams -** really lovely show, brought some of the Disney magic that is missing from the park. Fireworks were cancelled due to wind. Overall we had the most amazing day!!! We got to do everything we wanted (with some careful pre-planning), the weather was perfect. The park is huge! We still didnt see everything, with fantasy springs opening you definitely need 2 days to see everything. The park itself is so well done, every nook and cranny has amazing theming, but it does miss some of that disney magic. However, I think with the fantasy springs addition, the park will really have it all. The food is greatalbeit very long lines. We ordered dinner through the Disney app and picked it up at a designated time which was a life saver. **DAY 11 TOKYO Fri 24th May** **18,504 steps** We had a 10:30 timeslot booked for team-lab planets (knowing we didnt want to have a too early start to the day following Disney) Team labs was lovely, hard to be blown away following the day at Disney but it was still a nice experience. It is certainly a photo opportunity rather than a place to actually learn about and appreciate the art. Either way everyone did enjoy it, and its much more affordable than the digital art galleries we have in Aus. We stopped at Ginza on the way back to go to a few shops and grabbed some lunch from the Matsuya department store food hall. The group split up here and hubby went to Akihabara with our nephew to look at anime stuff. I took our son shoe shopping in Ginza and then headed back to the hotel to do some washing. Took a nice walk along Sumida river and went to an early dinner at Ichiran ramen. It was yum, but not the best ramen of the trip. When the kids were in bed I headed to Don Quijote Asakusa alone to grab some things I wanted to try. It was so busy even at 11pm at night, dont attempt with kids! the line for tax free registers took over 30mins to pay. I walked back through sensoji around 12:45am and it was so peaceful with no one else around. **DAY 12 TOKYO TRAVEL TO OSAKA Sat 25th May** **16,914 steps** Last minute shopping in Tokyo. We split up, hubby took all the kids to some toy stores, and my SIL and I went shopping in Ginza. Originally I thought that Ginza was only high-end stores but found it to be the best place for shopping as they had all the major stores there, Uniqlo, Nike, Loft etc. 5:47 pm Shinkansen to Osaka. Arrived around 8:30pm to Osaka hotel. **\\*** an extra day in tokyo would have been nice\\* **DAY 13 - NARA DAY TRIP Sun 26th May** **21,335 steps** We went for a walk in Nara park, Todaji temple and walked through the streets of Nara. We went to Nara 10 years ago and loved it, but this time just didnt feel the same. It was so busy, smelly (deer poo), and just felt nothing like we remembered. That was a bit of a disappointment for me and hubby, the kids still seemed to enjoy it as they liked patting and feeding the deer, and looking in the souvenir shops. Dotonbori for dinner **DAY 14 OSAKA Mon 27th** **May** **21, 817 steps** Went to Kuramon market in the morning. I loved walking through here (and i don't eat seafood!!) there is so much amazing food here. definitely go with an empty stomach! Got some nice chopsticks. Explored Shinsaibashi, Dotonbori, Umeda, Pokemon store, shopping. Ate some street food. Tried to get an early night before USJ. **DAY 15 UNIVERSAL STUDIOS Tues 28th may** **24,352 steps** Set the alarm early and arrived at USJ about 8:15am. We were through the gates by 8:30am. The weather forecast was rain all day.and boy did it RAIN ALL day. 110mm of rain it was horrendous! Hot tip, if it is expected to rain then definitely bring an umbrella for each person and a poncho! So much cheaper to buy in Osaka than the 1800Y they charge per person for a poncho at the park when you have no other options. They have really cool merch tho, way better than Disney. We pre-purchased Express -pass 4 (variety fun) for our kids (they were too small for some of the coasters, or didnt want to ride). The rest of us had express pass 7. We had 10:20am timed entry for Harry potter and 5:40pm timed entry for Super Nintendo (although you didnt need a timed entry on the day). When we got in hubby and my nephew raced over to Demon slayer (both big anime fans) and the rest of us went to Minions. We spent a lot of time in souvenir shops and seeing shows that were out of the rain. Flying dinosaur, Hollywood dream, &amp; flight of hippogriff were all closed until 6:30pm when it finally stopped raining. The rides we did **Minion Mayhem ** waited 5 mins at the start of day, *6/10* due to motion sickness factor. My son would say 10/10 it was his fav ride. Went on again later in the day with our express passes **Freeze ray sliders ** kids said *6/10,* I didnt ride. Got straight on. **Forbidden Journey ** Used our express passes and got straight on, pretty cool ride 8/10. Hubby hated it due to motion sickness and vomited as soon as he got off. Kids loved it. I took the kids on again at 7:30pm and walked straight on. **Flight of the hippogriff ** managed to use our express passes when this opened about 7pm. 6/10, its fun but really short, the best part is the view of the castle. **Flying dinosaur** express passes, waited 5 mins. *9.5/10.* Amazing coaster. **Demon slayer -** hubby said 9.5/10. Said it was pure fun the whole time. Coaster + VR. No motion sickness. **Mario Kart ** Express passes. Waited max 10mins. 8/10 **Yoshi ** Kids used our express passes as it wasnt included in theirs but we decided to go in the normal line and got on only a few cars behind them. A nice view of SNW but pretty boring otherwise 4/10 **JAWS ** 6/10. My daughters fav ride. She went on twice, 5 min wait all day. **SING ** live show. Fun singing along to the songs. **MyHero 4D ** in Japanese. Was still fun, and dry. Had dinner at Hard Rock outside after we left. \\*adults preferred Disney and the kids preferred universal (even in the torrential rain)\\* \\*our son's favourite day (7yr old) **DAY 16 OSAKA -Home Wed 29th May** **17,070 steps** Took our time in the morning packing and left luggage at the hotel. We stopped by shinsaibashi to grab a few things we wanted to buy, grabbed some lunch and then went to the Osaka aquarium. The aquarium is beautiful and the whole area near there is really nice too, they have a giant ferris wheel and legoland which we didnt go to. Would have been nice to have a few more hours to explore the area. We headed back to the hotel at 4:30 to grab our luggage and got the Nankai airport express train to the airport. This was pretty straight forward and we managed to get a seat after a couple of stops. Flight home at 9:25pm \\* Our daughters favourite day (10yr old) (besides the flight) If you got this far, thanks for taking the time to read. I hope you enjoy your trip"}
{"id": "0094", "text": "This sub has been a huge help in my itinerary preparation and general whatever questions so I thought why not return the favor.. 3 months later. Welp, better late than never! This trip report will be done chronologically, detailing our mistakes as we went (especially on day 1). And I'll probably be sprinkling in some tips and learnings here and there. **Travel dates** February 18 to 22 Kyoto February 22 to 27 Tokyo **Day 1** After landing at Narita airport, we were able to breeze through the immigration and customs lines, mainly because of the Japan web QR codes and maybe also partly because we had a morning flight. First things that I wanted to get in order ASAP were: 1. **Cash** - Took us a while to find an ATM in the airport, but did find one in the lower floor and withdrew just a tad over 20k JPY (a mistake). 2. **Yamato Transport** - After getting cash, I wanted to buy and load my Suica card first but it turns out there aren't any nearby the arrival area. Since Yamato is inside the airport, I just decided to do that first. Paid 5260 JPY in total for 2 luggages sent to our Kyoto hotel. Not sure if it's a measurement error or a done deliberately, but the Tokyo (NRT) to Kyoto fee was much more expensive than our Kyoto to Tokyo luggage fee. 3. **Suica** - Finally found a JR East office that sells the 10 year Suica cards. Bought two, one for me and my partner. Initial load was 1500 JPY, so I deposited 500 each so each card ended up costing 2000 JPY. After sorting all that out, I topped up our Suica cards at a 7-Eleven store. But since I did a rookie mistake of only withdrawing 20k JPY, I was only able to load 5k for each card. I call this a mistake because the foreign exchange and withdraw transaction fees where I'm from are WILD so I should, as much as possible, minimize the amount of withdrawals that I do. Next task was to buy tickets for the Narita Express bound for Tokyo station. It wasn't difficult to get one, but turns out that I selected the unreserved seats option when I got my ticket. All of the seats in the NEX are supposedly reserved os I'm not sure why that was even an option. Luckily, I asked a guard about my ticket, at that time just making 1000% sure we're in the right place. He found out that I had an unreserved ticket so he taught me how to change to a reserved one in the kiosk near the tracks. So big thanks to that guy. Slept the entire way from NRT to Tokyo station. Tokyo station wasnt as bad as I expected. After just following the signs leading to Tokaido Sanyo shinkansen, managed to find ourselves in the right floor and right gate. I tried to redeem our reserved tickets, but somehow couldnt get it to work. Turns out that this is not an isolated issue and people on Reddit are also complaining about this. Apparently all you need to do is just let the gate machine scan your QR code and then it spits out a ticket for you. The conductor asked me to insert my 2 tickets from the NEX too, probably to end the trip. While waiting for our 1 PM train, we bought some ekibens and water. Got pork cutlet and unagi. Around 12:50 we decided to go up and wait for the train there. Turns out the train was the one waiting for us. Apparently you can already board a shinkansen 20 minutes before departure.. when the clock struck 1 PM, the train immediately left the station. Ate and then slept for quite a bit at the train. We had premium or business class style seats, so it was pretty comfortable. I wasnt really feeling well, so I had a hard time resting. Asked my partner to wake me up if she sees Mt. Fuji, but Fuji-san was shy that day. Arrived at the specified time, as usual when it comes to Japanese standards. Looked for signs leading to the Subway and Karasuma line, as that will be our next train going to the hotel. Managed to find it quite easily. Metros and subways are really just about following instructions, turns out. Shocker. As we arrived at the exit gate leading to the subways, we didnt know what to do again so asked for help from the gate conductors. They just took our ticket and scanned our qr codes and then let us pass. Found the entrance gate to the Karasuma line and tapped our Suicas. We were able to go inside without any problems. Couple minutes later, we arrived at Shijo station and tried to exit when for some reason it wouldnt accept our cards. Obviously I have no idea again what happened here. A concerned citizen pointed us to the fare change booth, but it only ended up recharging my card another 1k yen. After a couple more failures, just decided to call for help using the help desk/kiosk thing. The attendant asked me to scan my card and then he opened the gate. We stayed at THE GENERAL KYOTO Shijo Shinmachi for our Kyoto leg, which was pretty close from the station. After taking a little rest, we went to Nishiki market even though most of the stalls are already closed. We weren't very hungry due to sleep deprivation so we just bought strawberry daifukus. Wanted to check the good coffee place nearby (WEEKENDERS) even though I had an inkling it was already closed, but was pleasantly surprised to find out that they were still open and accepting orders at 1 minute before their closing time. The coffee was amazing, of course. We left shortly after finishing our cups and headed to a nearby Lawson to top up our cards again, withdraw additional cash, and buy some snacks. **Day 2 - Temple hopping, Pontocho** Started our day at 9:30 AM. First stop was Shijo station, just to have my partner's Suica card fixed. The station staff was really efficient and was able to fix the card in no time, probably because they get idiots like us everyday. Unfortunately, it rained the moment we got out of the station, which lasted the entire day. We had our minds set to our itinerary, so we had a quick Daiso run for some face towels and umbrella. After our first ever Japan bus ride, which turned out to be the wrong bus, we were finally able to ride the correct bus for Kiyomizudera. We hiked to the top with a shit ton of people and elementary school kids who were on a field trip. We didnt really mind the crowd explored, took some photos, and paid 400 JPY to enter the temple premises. After circling the entire perimeter of the temple, we went down to the next temple in our itinerary, Kodaiji. Bought a snoopy ice cream on the way down and this pickled cucumber on stick which we found absolutely disgusting, to say the least. To reach Kodaiji, we passed through Gion street, which had lots of cute distractions everywhere. Entered a ring making store, but didnt buy anything. Saw the second Ghibli merch store and got some souvenirs this time. Reached Kodaiji but decided not to go inside anyway lol. We went to Maruyama Park instead and enjoyed spending time petting and taking pictures of the most obese cats we've ever seen in our lives. We had more temples that we were supposed to visit in our itinerary, but at this point with the rain and all we just decided to fuck it and skip them. Went to Ichizawa Shinzaburo Hanpu, an old canvas bag shop that only has this one store in Kyoto. A bit pricey, but it's even more expensive on their online store so I took my sweetest time to find one that I really liked before I pulled the trigger. At this point, we haven't had a proper meal ever since we set foot in Japan. So we took a bus to the nearest Ichiran and got the ramen bowl with soft-boiled egg add-on. It was good, but nothing life changing. As we were in the area, we walked to WEEKENDERS (again), and ordered pourover and iced latte. Everything was amazing. On the way to Pontocho, we passed by our first Donki and ate our first famichiki. That thing is insanely good and one of my biggest regrets is not eating more of it. Strolled by Pontocho alley, didn't eat at any of the restaurants. We didn't have any winter clothes at all, so we went to UNIQLO and GU for some heattechs and outerwears. Before ending our day, we paid another visit to 7-Eleven for snacks/dinner. I think it was probably around this time that I fell in love with the salmon onigiri. Our Yamato transport luggages arrived in the afternoon that day, so were only able to collect it when we returned to the hotel at night. **Day 3 - Fushimi Inari, Higashiyama** Arrived at the starting area of the Fushimi Inari hike 30 minutes past 12. Was wearing my newly bought long coat today and a pair of loafers. Definitely the exact opposite of clothes youd want to wear for this kind of activity. Still, we managed to finish the entire Fushimi Inari loop, but not without sweating loads. At the end of the hike, we went inside this cozy coffee shop by the river (Vermillion Cafe). Ordered hot coffee and bread. Place was nice but was more amazed with the Japanese cashier's fluent English. Didnt stay for long, and then continued on our way and stumbled upon this chonky tuxedo cat. Or it couldve been the other way around Anyway, after those events, we finally arrived at the end road. Plenty of food stalls everywhere, so we tried some takoyaki, chicken skewers, and karaage. Probably liked the takoyaki the most, but then again, none of them were life changing good. After Inari, we were kind of at a loss on what to do next. We werent really hungry because of all the snacks, and the supposed next stop on our itinerary is already closed because of our late start. So I figured to go to Arabica instead, and found one in Higashiyama. Boarded the train to Kyoto and then a bus to the area. Turns out that this Arabica spot is the one thats famous for the Yasaka pagoda background. Took some pics, bought coffee, which was terrible at first but got better as it mixed, then took more pics. Fair warning if you're lactose intolerant, you might want to stay away from Arabica's coffee.. Again, we didnt know what to do after our coffee stop. We just mindlessly strolled for a while, until finally setting our sights on Gion. Noticed that theres a gyukatsu place on the way, so we decided to eat there for dinner. **Day 4 - Arashiyama, Kinkakuji** Started the day with a fun 15km run along Kamo river. Really had a blast running there, as the riverbank never seemed to end. Had a long bus ride to Arashiyama, where we visited the bamboo forest and monkey park. It rained again, but at this point we've had enough rains that it didn't really matter anymore. Mount Arashi looked amazing across the Oi river, especially with the fog caused by the rain. For lunch, we had a reservation at Unagi Hirokawa, which is also located in the vicinity. A little pricey, but the meal was superb. Shortly thereafter, we left for Kodaiji temple. We arrived just before closing time so we just kinda sped up going around the temple. It probably would've looked much better if we went there in the morning or early afternoon. Didn't do much afterwards, just random strolls along Gion and Shijo, visiting a couple boutique stores and had takeout Mos to eat at the hotel. **Day 5 - Kyoto Tokyo** Our last day in Kyoto. Checked out of our hotel and grabbed our last cup of coffee at Weekenders before going to the station and ride the Shinkansen to Tokyo. Tokyo felt much colder than Kyoto for some reason. Maybe it had to do with the wind. We were freezing when we arrived outside Tokyo station. Anyway, we took the city bus from the station to Hamacho hotel, where we'll be staying at for 5 days in Tokyo. After settling ourselves in, we strolled around the neighborhood and stopped by Single O for coffee. Walked a bit more afterwards to explore the nearby stations. Realized it was getting too cold so we decided to take a quick trip to Ginza to buy gloves and leggings. Pretty uneventful day overall, but we were pretty tired from all the travelling so it felt nice to have a slow, easy day. **Day 6 - Shinjuku, Shibuya** Our first taste of rain in Tokyo. And what better way to spend a rainy day than to visit the Shinjuku Gyoen National Garden.. But yeah, that's exactly what we did. It was freezing cold, but we had fun seeing the plum and early cherry blossoms at the garden. We were supposed to visit Meiji Jingu and Yoyogi afterwards, but we were short of time so we went directly to the Harajuku area instead. Ate some crepes, strolled a couple blocks, and off we went to Shibuya crossing. After a couple pictures, we then went to Shibuya Sky for our scheduled visit. Since it rained all day, we weren't allowed to go to the open/rooftop area of Shibuya Sky. We didn't get a nice view either because of all clouds and rain, so pretty unfortunate overall. But we still had fun looking at the streets below. Had a late lunch/early dinner at Tonkatsu Maisen Omotesando, which was also our first meal of the day. We didn't plan to go at this restaurant at all but I'm so glad we did because it was amazing. Their tonkatsu was something else, plus the unlimited rice, which was a welcome surprise. If it isn't obvious by now, we're huge suckers for good coffee so we went to Koffee Mameya after our meal. There was a short line (around 5 PM) so we had to wait for a while before getting our turn at the table. This never came up on my research for some reason, but I was surprised to find out that they don't carry their own beans, and they actually only make the pourovers for you using beans from other roasteries. Both of us had a light roast (forgot which roastery) which was pretty good, but didn't really make me salivate enough to buy the beans. Checked a couple more stores around the area. Didn't really like anything so we left and went to the ASICS RUN store in Marunouchi and bought my first pair of Superblasts. Then, we left for the hotel shortly afterwards. **Day 7 - Ueno, Asakusa** Had my morning run at the Sumida riverside, just a few blocks away from our hotel. Not as nice as Kamo river, but it was good enough for me, as someone who lives in a place with barely any running routes. We tried this bakery beside our hotel called Boulangerie Django, somewhat European inspired but the food and bread were really good. We didn't really have much of a choice though since the aroma of the breads just draws you in when you pass by the place. Afterwards, we bought coffee to-go at Single O, which is at the other side of the street. The weather today was perfect. Sunny with some clouds. We visited Ueno zoo, even though it wasn't in our itinerary. Initial plan was stroll around Ueno park and visit the museums, but for some reason we wanted to look at some animals that day, so we did. Didn't know what else to do at Ueno afterwards so we headed to Asakusa for food. At Asakusa, we had croquette for snacks, street izakaya for late lunch, and unagi onigiri, and cremia for more snacks. It was nice, but at the same time the place felt very congested. Before going back to our hotel, we paid a quick visit to Akihabara just to have an idea of what the place is like. We ended up spending quite some time here, visiting a couple anime stores and claw machines. Left the place around 10 PM and arrived at the hotel at 10:30 PM. **Day 8 - Chuo area** Ran again, this time at the Imperial Palace. I think I did around 2 loops. Had a ton of fun running here, plenty of other runners as well so you could easily just latch on to their pace and cruise the entire time. It also rained again after I finished my run. Went to Tsukiji Market first thing for snacks. Then we walked to Hamarikyu Gardens for more plum and cherry blossom spotting. Kinda wish we just skipped this since it felt pretty much just like our Shinjuku Gyoen National Garden trip with the rain. There weren't any stations nearby either, so we had to walk to our next destination, which was Ginza Steak. Ginza Steak has set menus, but I'm pretty sure everyone's just after the unlimited wagyu beef. I think I had at least 6 servings. The person beside me, who was already there before we arrived, probably had like 20 servings. Funnily enough he struck a conversation with us just out of fun, so I told him that I think he's a very big eater. He laughed and thank me for the compliment. He was there with his daughter, who was celebrating her birthday. In the end, all of us at the table sang happy birthday for her. Such a fun moment. We went to Glitch Coffee after our meal, then lined up for almost 2 hours just to get inside. Turns out their other branch was under construction so everyone flocked to the Ginza branch. It was 100% worth the wait though because this was the best cup of coffee we've ever had in our lives. I ended up buying 2 bags of beans from this roaster. Shopped at UNIQLO then had a small meal at TORIGIN. Bought souvenirs at Don Quixote before going back to the hotel. **Day 9 - teamLAB Borderless, Shibuya** Our last day today. First thing we did was go to teamLAB Borderless at Azabudai hills for our reservation. We didn't expect to have as much fun as we did here. We wanted to eat ramen so we looked for one near Omotesando. Stumbled upon Oreryu Shio, supposedly a big ramen chain in Japan. Their serving was much larger than Ichiran's. Taste-wise though, I think we preferred Ichiran more. We didn't have much planned for this last day, as we wanted to keep it open to allow us to visit places that we liked or wanted to visit again. We spent our last half day in Shibuya, doing vintage stores crawl and revisiting Takeshita street. Also did some last minute shopping at Loft Shibuya and spent all of our coins in a gachapon place near Shibuya crossing. Crossed the Shibuya crossing one last time and then we went back home to pack and rest. **Day 10 - Flight back home** Our flight was at 8:00 in the morning, so there was no room to do anything else before leaving. Since we stayed in Hamacho, the T-CAT was just a few blocks away from us. We took a taxi to T-CAT, then boarded the bus to Narita. Arrived around 6 AM, which was plenty enough time for us to go through all of the stuff in the airport plus buy additional souvenir snacks. And as promised, here's the expense breakdown of our trip: https://imgur.com/a/PCckaO1 Edit: Formatting"}
{"id": "0095", "text": "**EDIT** Made a typo, trip was from MARCH 31 - April 13 :) I've combed through hundreds of trip reports and itineraries for trip inspiration, so hopefully my trip report could come in handy for a few people! Happy reading! **Background and notes:** First trip to Japan with my boyfriend and our first international trip as a couple. Japan has been a top destination for both of us. I'm an avid planner who has lots of anxiety about things not going right, and I typically like to plan fully packed days while my boyfriends is more go with the flow and likes to take his time to relax and enjoy the sights. I tried my best to find a happy medium for the both of us and overall, we had an amazing trip! We both packed one smaller suitcase + one empty check-in &amp; duffle bag and we came back with 5 suitcases (thank u donki for coming in clutch with the suitcases) A lot of the things on our trip might seem like places that are touristy and overdone but we're tourists! and it's our first time here so we didn't mind waiting in line or going to really crowded places to experience things once. (Although some places were super overcrowded and it did get a liiiittle overwhelming sometimes). Also we were kinda sad thinking we would miss the cherry blossoms because the prior predictions stated that they were going to be done and over by end of March, but luck was on our side and we were right at the height of cherry blossom season! I've never experienced something like this and seeing all the trees covered in them is something I'd never forget. **Day 1 (March 31)** * Travel day, landed in NRT around 2:30pm. The flight was uncomfortable and mediocre but once you get through customs and get into the bustling airport nothing matters, the trip was starting! * Couldn't resist getting a gachapon and stopping by the Lawson's that was in the airport terminal for a little teaser for what's to come. * We had originally planned to take the bus to the city but the bus would have taken about 2hr30min to get to our hotel compared to around 1hr20min by subway. After the long flight, we'd much rather get to the city as soon as possible. (Protip! Download Suica on your phone and load the card so that you don't have to wait in a long line to buy a subway ticket! We thought the Keisei Narita Skyaccess was a special line and we wouldn't be able to use our Suica cards and we ended up waiting in line but the kind worker told us we could just head on in) * Checked in at the **Hotel Celestine Tokyo Shiba**, settled and rested up for a bit. * Headed to Ginza for a dinner reservation at **Ginza Chikamitsu** which is known for specializing in a Yakiniku course meal. It was pretty pricey but definitely worth it. The meat quality and service was amazing. They even gave us a pack of mints at the end lol. * Did some damage at Uniqlo &amp; GU, with the Yen prices right now with the addition of tax free shopping I might have went a little crazy, bought around 15 pieces of clothing for less than 200 dollars which is still insane to me. **Day 2 (April 1)** * First full day, jet lag didn't hit us too hard and we woke up around 7AM to get ready and head to **Tsukiji fish market**. * Tsukiji Market Takeaways: * 10000% get the tamago if you think you'd enjoy sweet egg. My bf and I tried to share everything on this trip so that we can eat as much as we can but this is the one thing I would not share LOL. * UniTora - We got lucky with the line, only had to wait about 20ish? minutes. Uni was good, but honestly get the bowls with a variety of different fish because just uni + rice can get a little boring. * Definitely head over as early as you can, it got super crowded around 10AM * I know most people say Tsukiji is overrated but my bf and I liked this market the most compared to Nishiki(Kyoto) and Kuromon(Osaka). * Took the bus to head over to our reservation in **Small Worlds**. Highly recommend, you can spend a couple hours here just looking at all the exhibits and finding small and amusing things, it's great to see all the hard work and detail that goes into everything. * Visited the **Gundam in Odaiba** afterwards, sad that the one in Yokohama closed right before our trip but this didn't disappoint! The size was still massive and there were cherry blossoms blooming nearby. Spent a few hours in **DiverCity Tokyo Plaz**a mall afterwards and did some more damage shopping. * **Tsujihan** for our next meal around 4pm, made the journey to the Akasaka Arks Hills Branch and no line! The restaurant was less than half full the entire time we were there. If Tsujihan is on your list this branch is your best bet for no line. **Day 3 (April 2) - Tokyo Disney Sea Day** * Woke up at 6am, took a taxi over to **Disney Sea** because from where we were staying it would have taken over an hour (with like 3 different subway transfers) to get there and we'd rather just pay for convenience. * Got there around 8am, waited an hour in line as the park opened at 9am (they didn't open early this day). The morning crowds were insane! Never seen such lines at the Disneyland in California. * **Disney Sea Takeaways:** * Use the Disney Resort App and make sure to take advantage of the free 40th Anniversary Pass. If you have the budget to buy the Premier passes, I'd suggest that too. If you do end up buying passes to almost all the rides then you might be done with the park pretty quickly, we didn't end up spending the entire day there. Left around 6PM - skipped out on the night show cause we were cold and tired. * The only line we waited in was for Aquatopia and 2000 Leagues Under the Sea. * Bring a jacket! It gets super cold at night, I'm thankful we didn't get sick from how cold we were towards the end of the trip. * Food + Snacks are super affordable, we got to try almost all the popcorn because they were like $2. But honestly, the food wasn't as good as everybody hyped it up to be. * Some of our favorites were the Gyoza Bun, Shrimp Bun, Matcha White Chocolate Popcorn, and the curry set from the restaurant at the Arabian Coast. * All the rides feel super short? Especially Journey to the Center of the Earth. If I waited in that 2+ hr line I would have felt scammed. * Overall, the park was super cute and enjoyable. Great first experience, not sure if I'd find the need to come again. * Took a taxi to Asakusa to try out Nabezo cause we were craving hotpot after a cold night. Got turned away because they were full for the night and we didn't have reservations. I don't know how but we somehow braved a 1hr30min line for **Gyukatsu Motomura** that was right next door. Great dinner and we made friends in the line with a sweet older couple from Europe. Was the food as good as everybody hyped it up to be? Yes. Would I wait in a long line again? Maybe? **Day 4 (April 3)** * Woke up around 9AM was able to take our time to get ready to head out to Ginza. It was rainy this day but not enough to deter our plans. * I really wanted to try out **Ginza Godaime Hanayama Udon**. I'm a sucker for flat noodles and I love udon so this was a priority for me. Didn't make it to first seating as a line had already formed when we got there and we had to wait around an hour but by the time we got in the line was insane behind us! Get there as early as you can to avoid the lines. Food was amazing and I loved the texture of the noodles and the tempura was great as well. Loved both the dipping sauces for the noodles too. * After our meal we headed to **Asakusa** for more eating and exploring! Even with the rain Asakusa was crowded. Bf and I honestly really enjoyed Asakusa; the temples and shops were so fun for us to explore. * Best bite at Asakusa were the little kinako dango skewers that they served with a small cup of (amazing) matcha. I still dream about this. We tried the Creme Brulee Sweet Potato and **Imo Pipi** and it was good, but not amazing. * For dinner we headed to **Manten Sushi Marunouchi** for their famous affordable omakase. As a couple who enjoys omakase in the states, where the price is $$$$, we wanted to see how a cheaper Japanese omakase would fair in terms of taste and quality. * Honestly, pretty good, but it wasn't anything mind blowing. If you're someone who hasn't had a lot of exposure to omakase I would say this is worth going to as you're definitely getting your money's worth and the quality is still really good. Also our sushi chefs spoke a good amount of english and were great! Super enjoyable and entertaining when handing our food. **Day 5 (April 4) - Kyoto Travel Day!** * This was the day I was most anxious about, I had little to no idea about how the Shinkansen worked and I knew **Tokyo Station** was going to be crazy. We got to the station around an hour before our departure time and at first it was really overwhelming as we had no idea where to go and where our train was. We had to ask a worker and they kindly guided us towards where we needed to be. * Once we figured out where to go we were set, bought a few ekiben and snacks for the ride. Not sure if we just chose the wrong kinds but honestly the ekibens were mid..and cold, probably would have been better to eat onigiris or buy food elsewhere. * After arriving, we checked into our Hotel, **Hotel Intergate**, located off the main street of Kyoto but still close enough to Nishiki Market and other hot spots. * Speaking of **Nishiki Market**, that was our next destination. We were overall underwhelmed with the experience, lots of markets sold the same things and we didn't find much variety. The food we ate was also kind of mid. Nothing really surprised us here. * We visited two temples after this: * **Kinkaku-ji:** The Golden Pavillion, pictures do not do this place justice. The grounds were crowded with tour groups and tourists alike but once the pavillion comes into view, nothing is like it. It's golden shimmering structure surrounded by a lake was absolutely breathtaking. * **Roan-ji:** Renowned for its rock garden the place was extremely peaceful despite the crowds. There were cherry blossoms everywhere which made the experience even better. * Headed back to our hotel to rest a little bit and then we had a dinner reservation at 8pm at **Unagi Sora**. Probably our only really disappointing meal during our time here. Overall the food was okay, nothing spectacular about the unagi despite the restaurant being popular for it. Not sure if we went on an off day but even though we had a reservation we ended up having to wait an hour, the owner? manager? seemed to not have a working system on how to handle their reservation + walk in customers. After we got seated it took some time to place our order and even longer to get our food. I wouldnt recommend this place. * Ended the night with some McDonalds cause we were craving something that would satisfy us after our dinner. **Day 6 (April 5) - Arashiyama Day** * This day was the day I was looking forward to the most during our time in Kyoto. After watching vlogs and seeing photos of this place, I believed that this day was something that I would thoroughly enjoy and I did. * Places we visited: * **Arashiyama Bamboo Forest** \\- It was a cool experience, never saw so much bamboo in my life. Didn't need to spend too much time here but the overall experience was enjoyable. * **Tenryu-ji**: The pond located at the back of the temple is stunning and it had gardens filled with cherry blossoms and different flowers that was stunning to see when the blossoms were in full bloom. * Loved exploring Arashiyama, exploring the shops and food vendors. We snacked a lot and took in all the sights. * Had lunch at a small restaurant that specialized in soba. Bf got cold soba and I got a hot soba with mackeral, which I think Arashiyama or Kyoto is known for. This was my first time having hot soba and wow was it good, the flavor in the mackeral was surprising because I thought it would be more plain. (sorry I didn't get the name of this place) * Enjoyed some more time just walking along the river and taking in the views. I think Arashiyama would also be stunning in the fall with the changing colors of the trees. * Headed out of Arashiyama and it was still bright out so we checked out the **Pokemon Center** near our hotel before looking around for a Sukiyaki spot for dinner and landed at **Sukiyaki Kimura**. An older restaurant located at the end of Nishiki Market, where you have to take off your shoes and sit on tatami mats. * Once you order your food comes out: the meat, vegatables, tofu, rice and egg, and the server explains how to cook your sukiyaki as this place is more of a do it yourself kind of restaurant. It was a fun experience to cook it yourself and the food was a good way to end the night. **Day 7 (April 6)** * This day was pretty packed, we've got a lot of things on the schedule and we were excited about getting to see more of Kyoto. * First stop was **Fushimi Inari Shrine.** We got there around 9am and the crowds were crazy, definitely overrun with tourists and it's almost impossible to get a photo alone at the entrance or early stages of the shrine. If you want to get a picture by yourself + the shrine you definitely have to hike up. The higher you go, the less crowded it gets. * Bf and I hiked our way all the way to the top, in my honest opinion you could probably stop at the halfway point where you get to the city viewpoint, there's nothing new or a better view point at the top and I thought my legs were going to die once we reached the top. * We headed back down and stopped by **Gyukatsu Kyoto Katsugyu** for lunch. Waited about 15 minutes before getting seated, the workers took our order while we were waiting in line and so our food came out almost immediately. In my opinion this place tops Gyukatsu Motomura. The variety of sauces and the meat texture and quality was sooo much better, I almost didnt want the meal to end and i struggled on which sauce i should dip my meat in because all of the options were so good. Also didn't have to wait over an hour for this place. * After a delicious lunch we took a cab over to **Ninenzaka and Sannenzaka** area to explore. The streets are beautiful albeit crowded with tourists. Seeing the **Yasaka Pagoda** in person was stunning as well. * Have to shout out the **Candy Apple store**, probably the juiciest apple I've ever had and the sugar coating was perfect and not overwhelmingly sweet. We got their fresh apple juice as well and it was delicious. * We had an appointment scheduled at **My Only Fragrance** around 3:00pm to custom make our own perfumes. If you're a fan of custom making things or perfumes I highly recommend! The experience was super fun, smelling the different scents that they had and figuring out the different percentages you'd want to include for the scents. You get to also name your perfume and choose between a silver or white bottle cap as well. Total came out to be around $100 dollars, bf and I both chose one of their exclusive scents in our mix so it bumped up the price but for two perfumes that nobody else would have I think its completely worth it. * **Kiyomizu Dera** was next on our list. I don't think you can avoid the crowds anywhere in Kyoto because this place was PACKED. The sights were pretty and getting the view of Kyoto was nice but compared to the other temples we've been to in the city this one didn't really wow me as much? * As a person who loves anything mochi, I really wanted to try and get to **Gion Komori** to try their famous warabi mochi. Thankfully we made it in before closing, the line was somewhat long but it moves pretty quickly. The street where the restaurant was located was covered in cherry blossoms and it was absolutely stunning. * We got the matcha warabi mochi and a matcha parfait and both were delicious. I prefer the warabi mochi more. Topped with a sprinkling of matcha powder and brown sugar syrup it was just the perfect combination. The texture was unique as well. * Dinner was at **Tai Sushi** located in Gion, heard about this place on Tiktok and wanted to try it out. The wait was insane I think we waited about 2 hours and the line got cut off behind us as we barely made it in for their last seating. Hands down one of the best meals we've had in Japan. The restaurant was small, I would say about 12 people seating and they took in customers by batches which explains why the wait was so long. * We opted for their set meal which was about 8 pieces of fish with an additional order of chutoro, everything was super fresh and high quality, even better than some of the higher priced omakases we tried in LA. There's three people working and all the workers were just as equally nice and friendly, they speak basic english so it was hard to have deeper conversations with them but the vibes were great. * The sushi chef also provided us with two more pieces of sushi for free to apologize for the long wait which was so nice. Everything came out to be $70 dollars for TWO PEOPLE which was a steal considering the quality of the fish and I'd honestly brave the lines again just to come back here. **Day 8 (April 7) - Off to Osaka** * Since Kyoto and Osaka are pretty close, we decided to take the local train rather than booking a Shinkansen. * There was one last restaurant we wanted to try before leaving Kyoto and that was **Gion Duck Noodle**. Once we checked out of our hotel we made our way over to Gion to wait in line at the restaurant. Wait was about an hour long around one hour after they opened. Bf and I both got the duck ramen which was perfect to us, the texture of the noodles, the duck meat, and broth were just too good. * After I wanted to hit my dango craving so we walked a little more over to **Wakana,** loved the grilled charcoal taste on the dango as they grill the skewers to order. * Finally it was time to say goodbye to Kyoto and make our way over to Osaka. Subway ride took around 40 minutes and we checked into our hotel at **Onyado Nono Namba**, I really wanted to try the hotel branch in Kyoto but they were book so this was our next best option and I recommend! It's really close to **Dotonburi** and the subway stations. * Once we were checked in and got to rest for a bit we made our way out once more to head over to Osaka Castle. We didn't go inside the castle but walked around the explore the grounds and the surrounding areas. Because it was cherry blossom the place was packed with locals and tourists alike. Lots of locals and families having picnics and taking photos. The place was stunning and Osaka Castle was beautiful to look at. * Headed back to Dotonburi area as we had a **Ringram** reservation to make our own couple rings. Whole process took less than 30mins it was a cute experience and I wear my ring around everywhere. Quality of the ring is good! No signs of rusting as of yet. * Spent the rest of the night exploring Dotonburi, ate at **Chibo** for dinner to try Okonomiyaki (7/10 - the okonomiyaki was a little too thick for our liking) **Day 9 (April 8)** * Started the day with **Kuromon market**, we went early in the morning and this market was the last crowded one we've been to. We got a few bites to eat for breakfast and our favorite thing was this one stall that enticed us with a bubbling pot of seafood miso soup that was stewing away. * Headed over to the Osaka Aquarium next. I could have spent the entire day here. From penguins to dolphins, jellyfish and their famous whale sharks there was so much to see. And you could honestly just spend so much time sitting in front of the giant Whale Shark exhibit. It was a *little* sad seeing such majestic creatures circling the tank endlessly. * After that we went over to **Shinsekai.** We wanted to see the iconic street with the view of **Tsutenkaku tower** in the middle. The over the top signages was crazy to see but honestly that's all we got from Shinsekai, we didn't find much else to do here (maybe we needed to do more research) * Got dinner at **Coco Curry** (soooo much better and cheaper than the branches here in the states) and did some damage at the **Hankyu Dept store** to buy some Gentle Monster sunglasses ive been wanting. * Also if you're at the Hankyu Dept Store, **Hanadako Takoyaki** is a must. Got their green onion takoyaki and it was one of the best I've had. If you don't want to wait in their long lines, take your order to go! It'll give some time for the food to cool down anyways. **Day 10 (April 9) - Nara Day Trip!** * Before heading over to Nara, we made a short stop to go and visit the **Namba Yasaka Shrine**. Found a **551 Horai** store on the way and grabbed a few buns for breakfast. I wish we had these back home, I didn't know steamed buns could have so much flavor. * I didnt know what I was expecting, but I didn't expect the size of the shrine to be so huge! There wasn't much else to look at so we took a few photos and left for Nara. My prayers paid off because the days leading up to this day, the weather forecasted a lot of rain but thankfully it was just cloudy! * We bought our little deer cookies and ventured off into **Nara park**, a lot of deer closer to the park entrances or crowded areas can be more assertive and demanding for the snacks, so it's good to wander around to find some deer that are alone or sitting down if you want a calmer experience. * Once we ran out of cookies, we walked over to **Todai-Ji temple** to see the giant Buddha. I don't think anything can prepare you for the size of the statues, even the smaller Buddha statues placed on both sides are massive. We ended up buying the Temple + Museum tickets, so we went to the museum afterwards to check out some of the artifacts they had there as well. * We got out of Nara park to explore the city a little bit, tried the famous **Nakatanidou**, unfortunately we didn't get to see the show but the mochi was delicious. Also tried a different mochi shop **Kakuozan Fruit Daifuku Benzaiten** \\- which specializes in fruit daifuku. It's on the pricier side but you're paying for fruit quality and all the fruits were so juicy, our favorites were the strawberry and mango. * Spent the rest of the night exploring Dotonburi and shopping around at Shin Sai Bashi. **Day 11 (April 10)- Back to Tokyo!** * Took the shinkansen back to Tokyo. Once we got to Tokyo station we did some shopping at **Tokyo Character street** located on the basement floor. If you're really into characters like Miffy, Kirby, Pokemon, Mofusand, and others this is the place for you! * Checked into our hotel at **Tokyu Shinjuku Eastside Stay**. As hotels in Japan are known for the insanely tiny hotel room sizes, the room we got was a really good size, enough for us to open our luggage and still have space to move around. * All the traveling really caught up to us so we took a mid day nap before heading out to explore Shinjuku during the night time. The Shinjuku area was insanely lively, all the bright neon signs and the streets bustling with people we almost didn't know where to go. So we just went into whatever store's piqued our interest which were: a cat cafe, some clothing shops, and then an arcade (where we lost a good amount of money trying to win some plush dolls but we only left with a few french fry keychains lol) * Tried out **Torikizu** for dinner, a great place to drink some sochus and skewers for a good price as well. **Day 12 (April 11) - Kamakura Day Trip!** * Train to Kamakura took over an hour with a few transfers as well. Once we arrived, we explored **Komachi Dori Street** to snack and shop. Our favorite bite was the cheesy curry pan from **Giraffa**. * Had lunch at one of the many restaurants that were serving white bait shrimp. We opted for a sashimi bowl that included the fish. Can't remember the name but I feel like you could choose any of the restaurants at Komachi Dori St. and it would be just as good. * Places we visited in Kamakura: * **Kotoku-in** to see the giant Buddha statue. The vibes between this and the one in Nara were completely different, the biggest difference being this one was out in the open. It was beautiful seeing the statue surrounded by blue skies and the mountain in the background. * **Hasedera Temple:** One of our favorite temples, there's so much to see! From view points, cherry blossom trees, bamboos, ponds, and different shrines you could spend a couple hours here. They even had a cave that you had to crouch down to go into. * **Enoshima** was close by so we decided to make our way over...be warned if you want to go to Enoshima you will do a lot of walking, just the walk from the train station to the island was pretty long. Even though it the weather was cloudy we were able to get a glimpse of Mt. Fuji on our walk! Even though we couldn't get the best view the outline of the mountain was stunning and it made me want to come back just to try and see Mt. Fuji later on. * We got to Enoshima later in the day so a lot of the shops were starting to close for the day, but what we really wanted to see were the **Enoshima Iwaya Caves.** The caves were located on the opposite side of the island and the only way to get there was to walk (or I should say hike). There are so many stairs we took a lot of breaks on the way, they do have escalators available so I highly recommend you take them, but you do have to pay for its usage. * The back of the island was beautiful, and the caves were definitely interesting to see. One of the caves had a dragon statue to represent the local myths and although a little cheesy, it was fun to see the statue light up and make sounds if you clapped. * The last stop of the day trip was the iconic **Kamakurakokomae Station.** They had some security staff on there to help keep some of the tourists in check from jay walking and impeding on oncoming traffic as there were cars driving by. We got there right before sunset and having the trains pass by with the sea in the background was so picturesque. * After failing to try **Nabezo** on the first leg of our trip we booked a reservation in advance for dinner this night at their Shinjuku branch. Needless to say, I'm glad we got to try this place, we're avid hot pot lovers and the restaurant had AYCE wagyu cuts which were to die for. Definitely one of our top meals. **Day 13 (April 12)** * Our last full day in Japan :( This day was dedicated to the **Shibuya + Harajuku** area. Could have planned the day a little better as it was hectic and we ended up going back and forth between these two areas a lot. * Started out with breakfast/lunch at **Katsudonya Zuicho.** We wrote our names + order down and they gave us a time to come back instead of having to wait in line. It was about an hour and a half wait so we decided to do some shopping around the area. * When our time arrived, we got seated, the restaurant is cramped but the food was delicious. I didn't know Katsudon could taste so good, I'll be thinking about this meal a lot. * After our meal we headed over to **Harajuku**. Roamed around **Takeshita street** before venturing off into the back alleys where a lot of the hype stores were and did some damage there. * We had a **Shibuya Sky** resv at 4:30 (couldnt pick a time closer to sunset so this was the next best option). Once we got there we had to kind of just wait around for the sun to set but the wait was worth it. Seeing the sun go down and the city lights turn on was truly worth it. I will say, bring a warm jacket if you're coming at sunset/night time it gets really windy and cold. * Went back to Harajuku to try and squeeze in a visit to **Kiddyland** because I'm a sucker for cute things and this was the last chance we could go before we leave tomorrow. * Had **Sukiya** for dinner near our hotel and called it in early because we had a LOT of packing to do. **Day 14 (April 13)** * Our flight was at 9pm so we had a decent time to kill before we needed to go to the airport. * Our first meal of the day was **Monjayaki at Monja,** we tried to go the day before as the restaurant is located in the same building as Shibuya Sky but they were full for the night. Monjayaki may not have the best visual appeal but the flavors were amazing. I don't think you can get this anywhere back home so I had to try this and I'm glad we did. * We did some last minute shopping in **Shibuya** and had to do an insane **Don Quiote** trip where we literally had to buy an extra suitcase for all the stuff we bought. * Sadly, our trip was coming to a close. Took a taxi to Haneda airport because we ended up with too many suitcases to lug around the train station. **Trip Takeaways + Tips** I learned a lot after our trip to Japan, and I'm definitely going to keep these things in mind for whenever we plan another trip back but I hope these tips come in handy for you as well! * Pack light! Literally only pack your necessities, there's so much to buy in Japan you're going to need the space. And if you forgot anything, most likely you can purchase it there. * Use luggage forwarding services. This made our trip so much less stressful when traveling between cities, I can't imagine having to carry all our suitcases through the streets of Japan and the subways. * Try to book hotels that are in neighborhoods you'll enjoy and that are AS CLOSE to the subway station as possible. In Japan you're going to average 15k+ steps a day, and even if you're hotel is close to the station entrance the underground journey may not be as close. Getting back to the hotel after a long day will be a pain if your hotel is more than 10 minutes from a train station. * Account for lines and try to book reservations for restaurants you really want to eat at. Restaurants will literally turn you away without reservations because they're full for the entire day. * Buy things when you see it. You might think you'll see the same item again later, which may be true, but a lot of things that we wanted to buy we weren't able to find again later. If you read this far thank you so much for reading, I hope this thread helps a few people out there and if you have any questions feel free to comment!"}
{"id": "0096", "text": "I want to get some insights on the itinerary. Any thoughts would be appreciated! Since it's coming up soon, I just want to get some insights on potential problems that you guys can foresee! Things to note: * Will be coming from the US * Will be staying 13 days and 12 nights * This is my 2nd time going to Japan, but my partner's first time * Our budget isn't really on the cheap side, nor is it on the expensive side * This is for 2 people! * Food places will be random, but we also made reservations for some (will mention below if ever) **ITINERARY**: Day 1 (May 18): Tokyo - **Roppongi/Minato** * Arrival at 6 pm in NRT * Hotel: Roppongi area (Close to Tokyo Tower) * Dinner at Gonpachi Nishi-Azabu * Roam Around * Tokyo Tower at night Day 2 (May 19): Tokyo - **Shibuya** * note\\*\\*:\\*\\* it's the Sanja Matsuri festival and I wanted this day to be done in the Taito area (so debating whether to switch this and the 3rd day) * Roam Around: * Meiji Jingu * Yoyogi Park * Harajuku * Shibuya * will also do a Hair Spa at Ritts Day 3 (May 20): Tokyo - **Taito/Akihabara** * Roam Around * Sensoji Temple * Ameyoko Shopping District * Akihabara * Batting cage, Arcade, etc. Day 4 (May 21) - **Yamanashi** * Check out Hotel in Roppongi * Roam Around * Fuji Q Highland (ONLY ACTIVITY for this day) * Travel to Matsumoto, Nagano * HOTEL: in Matsumoto, Nagano Day 5 (May 22): Nagano - **Matsumoto** * Roam Around * Kamikochi (Morning) * Matsumoto ( Late Afternoon) Day 6 (May 23): Gifu - **Nakatsugawa** * Check out the Hotel in Matsumoto * Head to Nakatsugawa, Gifu * RENT A CAR * Roam Around * Tsumago-Juku * Magome-Juku * HOTEL: Ryokan in Nakatsugawa Day 7 (May 24): Gifu- **Takayama** * Check out the Ryokan in Nakatsugawa * Head to Takayama, Gifu (using car) * Roam Around * Takayama (Old town, showa-kan museum, etc.) * Check in Hotel in Takayama Day 8 (May 25): Gifu/Kyoto- **Shirikawa/ Gujo/ Uji** * Check out the Hotel in Takayama * Head towards OSAKA * CAR STOPS * Roam Around * Drop Car off in OSAKA * Check in Hotel in OSAKA * Roam Around * Dotonbori Day 9 (May 26): **Kobe** * Lunch at *Tor Road Steak Aoyama* * Roam Around * Kobe Animal Kingdom (we've been obsessed with Capybara so that's our main reason for going; didn't want to go to an animal cafe due to extremely long lines) * Potential: Chinatown &amp; Venus Bridge * Go back to Osaka * Roam Around * Dotonbori Day 10 (May 27): **Osaka** * Roam Around (morning / afternoon) * Osaka Castle * Tenjimbashisuji * Higashidori * Osaka Station * Amerikamura area * Rest * Roam Around (night) * Tsukenkaku * Karaoke Day 11 (May 28): Tokyo **- Odaiba** * Check out Osaka Hotel * Roam Around * Kurumon Market * Fly to TOKYO HND airport * Check In Hotel (near Tokyo station) * Roam Around (afternoon/night) * Odaiba (DiverCity Tokyo Plaza, Gundam Base Tokyo, etc.) Day 12 (May 29): Tokyo **- Toshima/ Shinjuku** * Roam around: Mainly for shopping Day 13 (May 30): Tokyo - **Ginza** * Check Out Hotel * Roam Around * Ginza * Tsukiji Market * Head to NRT airport (flight 7 PM) That's it!!! Thanks for any points/advice/warnings in advance! I will also post an update and trip report (Including a budget report) after the trip!"}
{"id": "0097", "text": "Hi everyone, here is our trip report for a 19 day stay in Feb/March 2024. My partner and I planned a mix of activities and prioritized trying a lot of vegan food and also finding cinema related things. This subreddit was so helpful for our planning so thank you all and hopefully this will be helpful too! *Pre-planning for the trip:* We booked most of our accom through booking.com which was super easy. We booked ahead for a lot of restaurants, the Ghibli Museum, a pottery class in Kyoto, Saihji (Kokedera) Temple, a hair salon, and a few small experiences on Klook. I used an Ubigi E-sim for the entire trip which I had no issues with, while my partner used the Sakura 4G SIM Card from Klook (picked up at Narita). *During the trip:* If you're from Australia we found the easiest way to go about money was to use an UP Card to pay and withdraw cash from 7/11 ATMs, we had extra bank cards as a precaution. We used Yamato luggage forwarding a few times which saved us as we definitely had over packed. Super convenient and nice to have your luggage waiting for you in your room once checked-in. Happy Cow was used everywhere we went! **Day 1 -** Checked-in at our hotel in Jimbocho (**Sotetsu Fresa Inn Ochanomizu Jimbocho**), we had been to this area a few years ago and loved it's vibe. Lots of secondhand bookstores. Walked to **Kyushu Jangara Akihabara** for dinner which had amazing and flavourful ramen. **Day 2 -** Had breakfast at **The Nuts Exchange**, one of the only cafes that open early, and had the BEST egg/breaky muffins that were so good we went back later in the trip just to get them. This cafe is also near a Natural Lawson which had some good vegan finds. We then walked to **Shibuya** and passed a cafe that had vegan cinnamon donuts (**Camelback Rich Valley**). Did some shopping at HMV, Disk Union, and the MEGA Don Quijote. Had coffee and a snack at **Bio Cafe**, then went to **Shibuya Parco** for the Nintendo &amp; Pokemon store, and lunch at **Izakaya Masaka**. The food here was a highlight and it was very chill, wish we could've gone back to try more on the menu and they may have more options on the dinner menu than lunch. Headed back to **Jimbocho** for more book shops, found a lot of cool movie memorabilia. Went past **ovgo Baker Edo St** for snacks for the Shinkansen, then headed to **T's Tan Tan** in Tokyo station for dinner and explored the station a bit. **Day 3 -** Wanted to go to **Glitch Coffee** in Jimbocho but it was closed for the day. Headed to **Whyte hair salon** near Harajuku for hair colouring and vegan donuts, would highly recommend this place and my stylist Moecha was so lovely and had a lot of helpful recommendations. While I was getting my hair done my partner went to **Good Town Donuts** (so good!), we also checked out **Ovgo Baker Meiji St** and **HealthyTokyo CBD cafe** while in the area. We had lunch at **Vegan Bistro Jangara** which had a really nice vibe but the food was pretty average. Took the Shinkansen to **Osaka** and checked-in at **Hotel the Flag**. This was a really well located hotel and very comfortable, they also gave us free breakfast for the first morning (not heaps of vegan options but perfect for a quick and early breakfast before USJ). Had dinner at **OKO - Fun Okonomiyaki Bar** which was one of our highlights, super fun and unique place that has delicious okonomiyaki combinations to try. After dinner we headed to the **Teamlab** experience in the botanical garden which had cool light installations and was a nice experience overall. **Day 4 -** Had breakfast at our accom then took the train to **USJ**, mainly went for Super Nintendo World which was hectic. Had the pizza set at **Azzurra di Capri** for lunch. Went to **Paprika Shokudo Vegan** for dinner, the food was fantastic and nourishing and there were lots of options to choose from! Went past **LiLo Coffee** and some vintage shops and the way back, had a much needed massage across from our hotel at Luck Thai massage. **Day 5 -** Got breakfast at **Cafe Morning Box** which was near our hotel and one of the only cafes open early. Good standard vegan options, get the thick toast! Went to **Osaka Castle** and walked around the lovely grounds. Had lunch at **Optimus Cafe** which had some solid options, nothing too exciting but still very yum. Then headed off to **Expo Commemorative Park/the Tower of the Sun** which was our favourite part of the trip! After that we headed off for dinner at **shelter cat VEGAN caf neu**, a cute all vegan cat cafe. We had the best view enjoying a delicious meal and cat shaped matcha latte, watching all the cats playing with the volunteers. To end the day we went to **Dotonbori** and managed to get some of the last tix for the Tombori River Cruise, it was a fun way to view the area but definitely a tourist activity. Lastly we went to **Ichiran Namba Midosuji** nearby which is one of the only branches that sells the vegan cook at home version of their noodles, we told them we just wanted to purchase these and they let us skip the waiting queue. **Day 6 -** Went to **Melbourne Coffee, Craft &amp; Cider Osaka** because we were craving a coffee from home. Then we wanted to go to **MERCY Vegan Factory** for lunch but it was closed, so we headed to **Sukhasana Pozzuoli** instead. Then we went off to **Nara** for the rest of the day. Beginning with the beautiful Isuien Garden, we then passed by the Catship Museum which was the cutest little museum ever! The lady who runs the place has a massive collection of cat-themed items, she was so lovely and showed us pictures of her cats, and also gave us each a handmade keyring when we left. Then we headed to the Todaiji Temple and explored the surrounding area, encountering many adorable deer along the way. We passed by **Nakatanido** to try their famous mochi, this lived up to the hype and we're dreaming of going back to eat these again. For dinner we went to **Onwa Cafe**, which was a chill and all vegan cafe that is only open for dinner on Saturdays. **Day 7 -** Had a quick breaky at **Cafe Morning Box** again, then took the train to Arashiyama station. Went to the **Saihji (Kokedera) Temple** (must book in advance) which had an incredible garden, and featured unique paintings on the sliding doors of the rooms. After this we passed by **Musubi Cafe** for a delicious slice of cake with matcha, then we walked to **Tenryuji Temple**. The grounds are really beautiful and if you visit on a weekend you can also get admission to the Cloud-Dragon painting in the Hatto. We had pre-booked for lunch at the restaurant there called **Shigetsu** which serves Shojin Ryori (Buddhist Vegetarian Cuisine). This was a memorable authentic Japanese exprience and the food had incredible textures and flavours, one of our favourite meals! Then we went to the main **Arashiyama** street and walked to the bamboo forest, lovely place to walk around but as expected there were heaps of people. We then checked into **Vegan Minshuku Sanbiki Neko** which is a bed and breakfast with traditional Japanese-style rooms. Very cosy, clean, and welcoming hosts! This accom was outstanding and had exactly what we wanted, vegan food and cats. After some rest we went to have dinner at **AWOMB Nishi-Kiyamachi**. This was my partners #1 food experience of the entire trip, and was definitely up there for me too. The set menu is a creative DIY sushi experience where you can mix ingredients and flavours as you wish. So much fun and every combo we made was good. The whole experience was even more special as there were no other patrons dining that night, it was just a private experience with us and the chef. **Day 8 -** We enjoyed our free breakfast at our accom then headed to **Fushimi Inari**. Had a coffee at the quieter branch of **Vermillion cafe** that's near Inari station, then headed to **AIN SOPH. Journey KYOTO** for lunch. Went past a lot of shops and walked around the Gion area on the way to **Zuikou Kyoto-Kiyomizu Studio**. We had pre-booked a pottery class that staff are able to run in English. You are able to select if you want to make a bowl or mug, and what glaze you want it to be finished with. The class was very guided so you couldn't create too much of a disaster, very excited to see our final creations. After this we had a look at the **Sannenzaka Path** and shops along the way to **Kiyomizudera**. The streets were extremely crowded which made it a bit hard to enjoy. Kiyomizodera was amazing of course! Headed off for an early dinner at **Kyoto Engine Ramen**, and glad we arrived around 530pm because we were able to walk straight in. Incredible vegan ramen, this was both my partner and I's favourite ramen from the entire trip. **Day 9 -** Headed to **IMU Hotel** to leave our bags. Went to **Kinkaku-ji** then to **Stardust Cafe** which was a very aesthetic cafe with nice vibes, drinks (no coffee) and snacks. From here headed to **Mumokuteki Cafe** which had a great menu. After checking out the nearby shops we checked-in at our hotel. For dinner we went to **UZU Kyoto** (booked ahead), a smaller UZU branch can be found outside Teamlabs Planets. The experience itself was wonderful, the art was so immersive and the menu was exciting. Unfortunately this was my least favourite ramen of the whole trip, still worth going to for the unique vibe/art. After dinner we headed to **Demachiza** cinema to watch Ghost World, this was a highlight as we loved seeing the cinema culture and cute shop. **Day 10 -** To start the day we had a very nice free breakfast at **IMU Hotel**, featuring vegan french toast. We visited the Pokemon store, and Hands, before checking out and heading to Kyoto station. Before our train we quickly went to **COYOTE the ordinary shop** nearby, the vegan scrambled egg on toast was so worth the quick visit, delicious! Taking the train to **Kanazawa** we then checked into our next accom, **Hotel Pacific**. We explored the area around **Kanazawa Castle/Gyokuseninmaru Garden**, then had a really satisfying meal at **Ippudo**. **Day 11 -** Headed to **Kenroku-en Garden** which was absolutely beautiful. Walking through the garden we headed to **Siguretei** for a tea ceremony. This was lovely and also one out of two options for the confections to accompany the tea were vegan. From here we went to the **21st Century Museum** which was nice to explore but sadly most exhibitions were still closed due to the earthquake earlier in the year. We had a quick lunch at **Curio Espresso**, decent sandwiches and coffee, and this happened to be across from a small vegetarian grocery shop. We then took the train from Kanazawa back to **Tokyo**, and to our next accom **ICI Hotel** in Asakusabashi. We had a snack nearby at **Cafe Tarot**, a tarot themed cafe which was all vegan! The soft serve was really yum. We had a special dinner at **Veganic Monkey Magic** planned for this night that I had booked a while in advance. The restaurant is very small and we were seated with only 3 other people. The vegan set menu was really good, and made even more special as it is served by Monkey-san. Monkey-san was a great cook, and host and we had sooo much fun. Definitely our most unique dining experience besides OKO in Osaka. **Day 12 -** Grabbed a coffee at **Cafe Tarot**, the went to **Meguro Sky Garden** which was quite tricky to find the entrance to. Not worth going to in hindsight but still had a great view. Next we went to **Alaska Zwei** and had an incredible mochi donut and focaccia that I'm still dreaming about, wish we could've gone back to try more of their food. From here we tried some more japanese snacks at **Taiyaki Hiiragi** and **Fruits and Seasons**, definitely would recommend the Taiyaki over the fruit sando. We also passed by Weller to check out their range but didn't get anything. Checked out the Matisse exhibition at **The National Art Center Tokyo**. Headed to Jiyugaoka for dinner, didn't get to explore the area much but went to a cool shop called SHIRO. Dinner was at **Saido** (must book in advance), rated one of the best restaurants in the world on Happy Cow. The experience was very low-key and the dining was not super fancy but still special. You were able to pick many options for your set menu and each dish had amazing flavours. Super satisfying meal with great service, one dish was even presented as a surprise while we were dining! Would highly recommend it overall. **Day 13 -** Went to **Marugoto Vegan Dining** in Asakusa for lunch. Really good curries to choose from and close to the water. Walked around the **Senso-ji** area and had amazing mitarashi dango, then stopped by **Shochikuen Cafe** for their famous rainbow cake. We then took the train to **Tokyo Skytree** and walked around the shopping centre. For dinner we first went to **Vegan Gyoza Yu**, then **T's Tan Tan** at Ueno station. Vegan Gyoza Yu was definitely a highlight for both me and my partner. We shared the plate of 12 pan-fried gyozas, each one was packed with flavour and it was so much fun tasting each type/colour. We wish we had something similar to this back home! At T's Tan Tan we had the golden sesame ramen and a small side dish, another satisfying meal. **Day 14 -** This morning we were on a mission to make it to **Morethan Bakery** in Shinjuku, which was a bit of an ordeal because we got caught up in the Tokyo Marathon and road closures. We did finally make it for the Sunday Vegan baked goods buffet, and it was so worth it! Everything is vegan on Sunday's and there was so much to try. We stocked up for our trip to **Mount Takao**, which was a really nice short trip out of the city. After our hike we took the train to the **Shimokitazawa** area. Visited both branches of **Universal Bakes** where we were in baked goods heaven. Lots of vintage and record shops, and came across a nice market. Decided to make an out of the way trip to **Great Lakes** for dinner, only to arrive to see they had sold out for the day, it was just around 6pm. Ended up going to **AinSoph Shinjuku**. Went to our next hotel **Sotetsu Fresa Inn Akasaka** to check-in. **Day 15 -** Started the day in **Shinjuku**, got a soft serve and plant based nuggets at **IKEA**, and visited the Godzilla store, Kitamura, and Kinokuniya. Also spent a long time in Disk Union! Had lunch at **Ippudo Lumine**, ramen wasn't as good as the Ippudo in Kanazawa but still great options. Headed to the **Kichijoji** area and spent time in Inokashira Park before our allocated time at the **Ghibili Museum**. Ghibli Museum was a good experience if you can get tix, the souvenir film stills are really lovely! The highlight was the short film which exclusively plays at the museum. After, we walked around the area and checked out **genuine gluten free Where is a dog? cafe** and Kichijoji Petit Mura. We had planned to go to **Crayon House** for dinner as we'd seen they offer a vegan buffet on Monday's but unfortunately when we arrived there was barely any vegan option and it was quite expensive. So we ended up just having some plain banh mi near the station. **Day 16 -** Sorted out our **Hakone Free Pass** at Shinjuku station then had breaky at **Mr. Farmer**. We then passed by **Good Town Donuts**, **Ovgo Meiji**, **The Nuts Exchange** and **Natural Lawson** before our trip to Hakone. Once we arrived at our accom, **Emblem Flow Hakone**, we wanted to grab dinner at **Box Burger** but it was closed for that night. So we went to **Hakone Kappei** and they had a delicious small range of vegan options. **Day 17 -** We made the most of our Hakone pass this day, first taking the cable car and ropeway from **Sounzan Station to Owakundani Station then Togendai station**. We then took the Hakone Sightseeing Boat from Togendai to hakone-machi which was fun, then the bus to **Mishima Skywalk**. This was a great attraction to visit and not too crowded at all. They also had a very helpful **web page** with all the vegan options. We took the bus back and went to the **Open Air Museum** which was incredible. Such beautiful scenery and so many statues/artworks to see, a must go if you're in Hakone! We then went back to our accom for our dinner booking at the **Emblem Flow** restaurant. Despite good reviews on Happy Cow this was really disappointing as when we tried to order the vegan curry (marked vegan) the waiter told us it actually wasn't fully vegan and offered as an alternative of tacos which was the worst meal we had on the entire trip. Used the onsen facilities after dinner which was a small plus. Also, we did find it strange that there was no showers in the main male bathroom (there was in the female), and they didn't mention that the only option is to use the open shower in the male onsen. **Day 18 -** Had a basic breakfast at **COFFEE CAMP** and checked out. We went to **Gora Park** which was a nice place to explore, had a few arts &amp; crafts stores and a pottery workshop inside too. Then we stocked up on randoms snacks for lunch at 7/11 and headed to **Hakone Yuryo**. We had pre-booked a private onsen room, so cheap and relaxing! 2 hours was really perfect to unwind. From there took the train to Ginza to our final accom, **The Royal Park Canvas**. My partner went to Video Market and I walked around Ginza to check out Itoya and Muji. Went to **KOMEDA is** for dinner, lots of things on the menu I wanted to try, and the shiro noir with soft serve was so good. Then we went to **Teamlabs Planets** which we had booked in advance, and checked out the **UZU** branch outside. Much more casual with an outside dining area, we just got a donut to takeaway but they serve ramen and ice-cream too. Teamlabs Planets was good, a fair amount of people but a much longer and interesting art experience than I had expected. **Day 19 -** Our final day! We had breakfast at **KOMEDA is**, really delicious matcha toast. Wish we had gone here more on the trip as it's open 7am - 10pm every day. Went to the **National Film Archive of Japan** for the exhibitions, which was a nice and chill activity for our last day. Got takeaway from **2Foods** nearby and did some last minute souvenir shopping. Then we headed to Narita airport, no vegan options there but I hear there's now a **T's Tan Tan** at T2! &amp;#x200B; Please feel free to ask any questions! We also have vlogged our whole trip and may put it on public if it seems like it would be helpful/interesting to anyone."}
{"id": "0098", "text": "Short Version: Me and my partner always rate our stays abroad. I think our final ratings say it all. Japan 1. 8.5. (Food&amp;Drink) 2. 9. (Views/Surroundings) 3. 9.5. (People) 4. 8.75. (Attractions) 5. 8.75. (Wow factor) 6. 9. (my enjoyment) 7. 9. (partners enjoyment) total: 62.5/70 Our previous high scorer was Italy, with a 60/70. So Japan leads our league table of 22 nations. Long Version: First of all, Japan is amazing. My 22nd and by far my favourite country. Also, first time out of Europe (with the possible exemption of Turkey) so this may help less experienced/UK travellers particularly. Day 1: Flew from Heathrow with Etihad, with a 2 hour stopover in Abu Dhabi. Flights were about 900pp once we selected seats together. Etihad planes and food were nice by my inexperienced standards (only flown ryanair before) but the staff were strangely passive aggressive at all times. Anyway, after 20+ hours of travel and finally landing in Osaka my partner had been physically sick (who knows why) and my eyes got super sore and irritated from the aircon which wasnt great. We landed in Osaka around midday and collected our JR passes (Hiroshima wide pass, seemed best value for money, planned to activate later in the trip), added money to our suica cards (travel cards you can just use on iphone dead easily on the wallet) and took the train to our hotel. After essentially collapsing at the hotel we woke up at night and walked 15 minutes to see Osaka castle all lit up. It was pretty awesome even in the dark and rain. Also got some eye drops from a chemist which was great. Dont speak any Japanese but google translate made it easy enough. Day 2: This time we went to Osaka castle in the day. At this point we were pretty amazed by everything, even a signpost in Japanese or a small bridge, so Osaka castle in daylight, full of in bloom cherry trees was amazing. That evening we visited Dontobori, which is really how I imagined modern Japan. Drank several beers (Sapporo, Asahi, Suntory, Yebisu, Kirin, in order of my favourite lagers) and ate the octopus balls they have. Wasnt for me but I like trying different things. Class evening. Day 3: Universal studios. Mainly went for my partner, albeit I was interested in mario world. Have to say, it wasnt great. Crazy busy, with more gift shops than rides (several closed that day). Mario lands aesthetic was great but it was small and lacking substance. Toadstool cafe had good food tho. Day 4: We left Osaka heading to Hiroshima via Himeji. We sent our luggage ahead of us through our hotel which was great, made exploring so much easier and wasnt too expensive (2ish thousand yen?). Arrived via bullet train at Himeji around ten. Himeji castle is f****g fantastic. And it wasnt even busy. Insanely beautiful, fully in bloom blossom trees, I loved walking through the castle and gardens, even the tickets and brochures were awesome. 10/10 experience. We then went to Engyoji Temple on the bus from the castle. Heres a tip. Board the bus in the middle, pay using Suica as you exit at the FRONT. Took the ropeway up to the temples and took a 15 min small hike to the temple complex. First temples in Japan and I was mesmerised. Seeing the temples used in the Last Samurai was awesome. Arrived in Hiroshima late and chilled. Day 5: Immediate day trip to Miyajima. Got there really early using the JR Ferry (our 5 day JR pass now activated). Loved the deers everywhere and the shopping arcade is great. Hiked up the Daisho-In trail. The temples and little stops are great. Took an hour. Only blip was persuading my partner to keep going having seen the multiple signs warning about snakes. Busy at the top near the observatory but our route was so quiet. Took the rope way back down. 10/10 day trip. Day 6: Visited Shukkei en Garden in the morning. Was great. So peaceful and we ate lunch at the cafe. Was giggled at for my terrible control of chopsticks but thats fair enough. Then visited peace memorial museums and parks. Park was cool but museum was far, far too overcrowded and people (other tourists) were too loud. Didnt really match the tone for me. Day 7: Left Hiroshima via bullet train for Kyoto. JR pass only covered to Shin-Osaka from there I used SmartEX to stay on the same train straight to Kyoto station. Stayed near Nijo castle. Went straight out to Nishiki Market and explored the downtown. Couldve been bad timing but it was so busy and hot (for us used to rain and cold) that we didnt really enjoy it. Had a great meal at a place where we cooked our own stuff on an open flame that evening tho. Day 8: Day trip for Nara to use our JR Pass as it was the last day itd work. Went to Fushimi Inari at 7am en route. Even at this time it was busy and the constant photo taking I found jarring. Higher up was much better once the crowds thinned as was the differing descent route. Continued to Nara after on the same train line. Nara was amazing. Loved the temples (Kofuku-Ji, Todai-Ji, Kasuga Taisha). Feeding the deers was fantastic. Loads of great places to eat. Day 9: Visited Arashiyama bamboo forest. It wasnt that busy, but it simply isnt a forest. Its like the quarter of a football (soccer) pitch at best. Walked over to the monkey park and fed them which was good fun. Of note, Arashiyama really doesnt open up till past 10am. If youre there early youll be hungry. We did visit the Miffy bakery. Long queue but tasted good. Visited Golden Pavillion, cool temple, short to go around tho. Then the Kyoto imperial palace (cool and free) and finally Nijo castle as it was right next to our hotel. I did a short run around Nijo castle as the sun set. Loads of other runners. Great stuff. Day 10: For this day I copied the temple walking route listed here: What To Do In Kyoto - A 3 Day Kyoto Itinerary - Nerd Nomads . Really enjoyed albeit feet were knackered and blisters were forming which would make me mildly uncomfortable for the remainder of the trip. 30k step counts everyday take their toll. Finished with a traditional tea ceremony at Maikoya. We both loved this. Getting in traditional dress was amazing even if the poses we were encouraged to do made it appear to my family as if we were having wedding photos. Day 11: left Kyoto on the bullet train for Tokyo. Saw mount Fuji as we went past. When we arrived we took a chill before going around Shinjuku then visiting the golden Gai. Had some great but relatively expensive drinks. Day 12: Woke up with loads of insect bites which sucked. I normally spray myself but forgot having been so drunk with my new Golden Gai friends. Dont make this mistake! Visited the national museum which was really cool and Ueno zoo. Pandas were great but some of the enclosures (size, standard) made me a little uncomfortable in comparison to the space given in UK wildlife parks/zoos. Not sure id go again for that reason. Passed through Akhibara later and it was sound. Day 13: Had a lay in then visited Shibuya. Yep. This place sure is busy. Shibuya sky was cool. We were both kinda exhausted with busy big cities at this point tho as had little interest in shopping. Both realised at this point our preference for temple/older style Japan rather than the big city centres. Thats just a personal preference im sure theres many who are the opposite. In the evening went to TeamLabs Planet. Now this really was fun. Water exhibits soothed my blisters and insect bites too lol. Day 14: With a day spare we took the train to Kamakura. Saw the big buddha, explored other shrines and stops. An awesome day trip. A welcome change of tone. Also, a fairly large bird of prey swept down and stole a mans sandwich causing him to fall in the sand at the beach. This was excellent theatre. Day 15: unfortunately it was home time. Back on the bullet train to Osaka from Tokyo. Sad faces. We will be back Japan. As a side note; with Etihad we had access to the Etihad Visit Abu Dhabi Experience getting 2 free nights stay at the Traders Hotel. Pretty insane deal to get it for free as a stopover en route home. Abu Dhabi isnt really my type of place but I know that now. Also, Etihad staff really stepped up their hostility and awkwardness here. Not sure id fly with them again personally. End comments: All in all, probably cost us about 2.5-3k each. It aint cheap but its definitely worth it and is much cheaper than the UK once youre there. Amazing country. Loved the people. Loved the culture of things, silence on public transport, always helpful, always respectful. Watch out for insect bites and blisters, they suck. The cherry blossoms really do add to things. Chopsticks are easily learnt. You can go with zero knowledge of Japanese. Translate, basic phrases and a smile go a long way. Public transport despite appearing overwhelming is actually easy. For UK folks, you cant jaywalk here. Even if theres no cars, no one does. Carry a bag for your rubbish too. Oh and public toilets and toilets in general are amazing."}
{"id": "0099", "text": "Just came back yesterday from my 12 days solo trip in Kyushu. The plan was listed here. Most of the things listed in the itinerary were accomplished except for the time in Beppu. I didn't go to Beppu, the plan was originally to visit Beppu on the day after the earthquake happened on the Bungo channel, but I decided to skip Beppu in fear that a similar followup earthquake might happen and decided to go to Fukuoka one day earlier. **General thoughts:** - Kyushu is so much better with IC cards than Hokkaido. I kept using it for various things, especially traveling on buses/trams/subways (except Kagoshima). - Also got the JR Kyushu 7 days pass. With the amount of Shinkansen I took it's a pretty good deal, even though I didn't use the full 7 days. Seat reservations from the machines work as intended. But the only ticket I couldn't reserve was from Kumamoto to Aso. That one probably needed to get booked early. - The earthquake happened while I was in Kumamoto. I felt my bed shake and it was squeaking while the tremor happened, but nothing major happened when it's through. The phone's system (I use Android) sent out an alert a few seconds before the quake actually happened, then the NHK world app went off. It recorded in Kumamoto as a 3. I just continued to lay in bed while it happened (though I was awake and watching my phone). There's supposedly a smaller quake after the big one but I didn't feel anything. - There's just a lot of stairs all over Japan, especially train and subway stations. I'm not exactly young anymore so sometimes I just opted for buses instead, if the destination was accessible. Also carrying luggage while walking up/down stairs is not fun. - Google map is once again my friend. Though one thing I should've done was to also check the restaurant's opening days on top of hours when I was planning as I missed 2 restaurants as a result. - I know Japan is pretty big on conservation and the environment but I really wish their toilet papers are made of sterner stuff. - There's still some sakura flowers in bloom, even though I am supposedly arriving a bit late than sakura season. Also, it was after the Easter holiday, so technically it's a slightly lull time period for traveling. - I felt this is more of a 'best of Kyushu' trip that tried to hit all the big spots in the region, but I had fun, so it was worth it. **Day 1** - Shin Shin was okay. I kinda expected more, probably a stronger taste of tonkotsu ramen. Most ramen places I usually just order the regular one and eat it as-is to get the \"original flavor\". I kinda wish it's stronger. - The hotel I stayed in was Hotel Oriental Express Fukuoka Tenjin. Location wise it's a little to the north of the whole Tenjin region but still very close to the Tenjin subway station. The room was good, though it doesn't have its own restaurant, and breakfast is done at a restaurant nearby, though the reviews seem good (didn't eat there). **Day 2** - I ate breakfast at Bills Fukuoka. Made a reservation on Google but it's not required as there were still empty seats at 9am. The famous pancake does need around 15 minutes though. - Walked to Kushida shrine from Bills. It was worth visiting, especially for the festival Yamakasa being quite impressive (be sure to check out both sides of this thing). - Canal City was also nearby but I'm not as impressed, except for the fountain water show at the hour. For the anime fans there's a Jump store at the ground floor. It's still morning so maybe there's not many people there, but it's quite empty. - For lunch I instead ate at Hakata Mizutaki Hamadaya Kouten, recommended by YouTuber Solo Travel Japan (either him or Solo Solo, I forgot), turns out this is the only store in the group that opens for lunch. Loved the chicken pot there, though I made a wrong turn and went to the Kitte mall first, and Kitte is not connected to the Amu plaza. So that was a bit of an adventure. - Maizaru and Ohori parks were really nice places (especially the former for sakura viewing), though Ohori park is actually quite crowded even though it was a weekday. For the Fukuoka art museum, the fee was pretty cheap to get into the exhibits. There's more on modern art versus classical art but some of the modern ones look pretty impressive, though some are just weird. - At this point in time I realize that I've planned almost half a day in these parks and by the 3rd hour I'm pretty much walked through all of them. It was like 4pm and I had nothing to do - I kind of wanted to find a shopping mall nearby to hang out and there's really none unless I take the subway to Tenjin (at least rest in my hotel) or the bus to Fukuoka Tower. I opted for the worst choice - dallying around the park area while waiting for the Yatai in Nagahama I planned to visit to open. Though I did check out this supermarket nearby that also has a value store and bought something there. - Dinner at Yatai no Tamachan Bekkan. It was introduced by a Taiwanese YouTuber TommyTommy. Firstly, the food here was definitely good - recommend the fried ramen. But that day's crowd for a Yatai was pretty damn quiet because nobody there was chatty enough except for a Japanese couple and everyone else is a tourist who don't/can't really talk to each other. So I kinda feel the owner in a way, and if nobody is talking in a Yatai then it kinda lost some of its charm. Also Nagahama is a little bit off from the main Yatai area (Tenjin/Nakasu), and unless you want to walk, there is a bus that can take you back to Tenjin/Hakata area (#68 I believe). **Day 3** - Took the Nishitetsu ticket package to Yanagawa and Daizaifu. The package also includes the punting tour in Yanagawa, where the punting tour company also has a shuttle bus to the dock. Just take this package (3340 yen) and no need to worry about anything else if you ask me. You just show the ticket to the staff at the gate, and when you leave they'll tear off the part of the ticket you're visiting. Though you can't buy it one day in advance. - Morning was in Yanagawa. As said, the ticket also includes the punting tour, so I just went directly for it. The tour takes about an hour-ish and the guide also can speak English decently while also singing local songs in Japanese and also other regions (ours sang one in Korean and Mandarin). It was fun. But do note the boat actually takes you to another corner of the town, and you need to take their shuttle to either go back to the station, or their dock. - I got off at the dock first because I wanted to eat the boxed steam eel rice at Ganso Motoyoshiya. The restaurant is kinda hidden amongst streets of housing but just follow the map and you're good. It's a traditional Japanese setup and it was one of the better meals I've had in the trip. Besides the steamed eel rice is a specialty in the area anyway. - Took the train to Daizaifu - you need to change trains once. The area outside the temple has lots of stores selling treats and souvenirs. - I went to the Kyushu national museum first. It's a gigantic building that has lots of open space indoors, and there's only 1 main hall for me to visit then (also you need to take a long way up via escalators). But that main hall has an impressive number of artifacts that basically gives you a historical tour from Japan even from ancient area. And the special exhibit (a room inside the hall) was Japanese katana which was also impressive. - Not so impressive is Daizaifu which was under renovation and instead we get a modern looking stage that acts as the shrine. It kinda takes away the charm unfortunately. I have no idea when they're done renovating. - Dinner is really late for this day so I checked out Amu Plaza and Kitte mall. For Kitte mall, it has a Uniqlo, HMV books and a Surugaya. Amu plaza was a bit bigger and a bit more high class (though not as high class as the Hankyu department store also at the station). Also got my JR Kyushu pass here, intending to use it later after buying it via Klook. - Dinner was at Offal Pot ROCCASHA, 9PM (though I went at 8:30). It's a Fukuoka specialty so I had to try it (also this was introduced by TommyTommyJapan). This I really want to recommend, probably had the best meal there but it's definitely better for groups, I think. Still, if you want to eat there, you MUST book it. Very unlikely that you can get a seat in here without booking. **Day 4** - I bought the Fukuoka wide area pass for this day from Klook. Now it's an e-ticket instead of an actual ticket and it allows you to take all of the JR trains within the Fukuoka region, but this excludes the Shinkansen from Hakata to Kokura, because that is operated by JR West and not JR Kyushu. It is a two day pass, but I only needed it for today. Still for 3500 yen, I think it's a good deal (at least we don't need to go thru the ticket machines with this). - Went to Mojiko first but actually the first thing was to take the ferry from Mojiko to Shimonoseki. But anyway, for the train part it was Hakata to Kokura via Sonic, then Kokura to Mojiko via local. I'll talk about Mojiko later. For the ferry, it's just a couple minutes from the train station. - In Shimonoseki I checked out the Karato market first. It was definitely worth visiting, the shops putting out sushi and you just point to what you'd want, then you take the sushi outside the market and face the strait while enjoying the food. Also you might want to check out the puffer fish sashimi, though I personally feel that it's more of an acquired taste. - From the market you can walk to the Shimonoseki treaty museum. The city's the place where the treaty was signed by China (then the Qing dynasty) and Japan. Pretty historic place, and it won't take much time. - Also checked out the aquarium across the market. The focus here is on the puffer fish and you get to see quite a few of them swimming around. Also has penguins, and I think a dolphin show though I didn't see that. - Also wanted to mention that the ferry across this strait also has a different ferry to Ganryujima, which was the island where Miyamoto Musashi fought Sasaki Kojiro. I didn't take that because I didn't realize that island was here. - Back to Mojiko and ate baked curry there. It's not bad, though as it's pretty popular, expect to get in line for the most popular one. I ate at Princess Phi Phi, though Curry Honpo Mojiko Retro was definitely more popular. - Speaking of Mojiko Retro, it's quite underwhelming. The most impressive was the pedestrian drawbridge, which opens a few times a day. But there's like...3-4 buildings mostly built in red bricks, renewed or rebuilt that can really be defined as retro-looking not including the station. And they're not all placed together, so it's a bit of a mix of new and old in here. Maybe someone else would like this place more, but I wasn't too impressed. - Went back to Kokura for the Kokura castle. I liked it, though like most castles in Japan the outside is traditional but inside is basically a museum. Still, the first floor has some interactive stuff that one might enjoy but they're all in Japanese, unfortunately. Most exhibits inside are also in Japanese and they rely on you to scan the QR code to get the non-Japanese descriptions. - Went to Aruaru city for the Kitakyushu manga museum and some otaku stuff. It's just a walk via a corridor from JR Kokura station, so quite accessible. The shopping center has lots of second hand anime stuff there. - Dinner was just some western restaurant in JR Kokura's shopping center. Nothing special. **Day 5** - Toughest leg of the trip, first day of the JR pass. Took a very early train to Sasebo. The goal is to take the 99 islands cruise, but there's only an hourly bus that's only a few minutes after getting off from the train. As I have luggage with me and I needed to use a coin locker in the station, I missed the bus because I didn't find the coin lockers in time (they are to the left of where you exit from the ticket gate). Had to take a taxi to get to the cruise port area as a result. The taxi driver was friendly and also tried to engage in discussion but there was an unfortunate language barrier. - Also this day was also a US Navy open day. A big line was formed outside that area, and I asked the taxi driver what it is. - For the 99 island cruise, I liked it. Takes about 45-ish minutes, and there's a recorded description in Japanese, English, Chinese and Korean as the boat moves along. Get on the deck of the boat and there's ample viewing angles, it even has a lookout that you can climb on. The dock also has some restaurants and an aquarium, but I was just there for the cruise, so I took the bus back to Sasebo after. - Sasebo burger was a specialty of the city, so I definitely had to check it out. The biggest name was probably Big Man, but there's a line, and there's not much seating plus I've read reviews that food takes a long time to come, so I checked out Sasebo C &amp; B Burgers instead. Simply put, best burger I've had in a long time. - Wanted to check out the Matsura train line because it cuts across Sasebo to JR Sasebo station and it looks like it's abandoned, but trains come about once in an hour or so, so I just checked out the station and left. - Took the local train froM Sasebo to Nagasaki via JR and boy it's way more packed than I expected. There's some views of the sea en route to Nagasaki. - For Nagasaki, the JR station looks very new, though the main street outside are getting renovated. The hotel I stayed in, Hotel Cuore was also getting renovated, unfortunately. - Went to the Atomic Bomb museum, peace park and hypocenter. Definitely memorable places, especially the museum. - Went from there to Mount Inasa. Took the tram and changed to bus #5 to get to the mountain, though I know there's a ropeway that takes you to the observatory, this feels like a better method and more accessible. Since the bus stop is relatively close to the observatory. - Mount Inasa is awesome, and there is a crowd, but not as packed as Mount Hakodate. This also means I had visited 3 of the top 3 night views in Japan. Inasa, Hakodate, and Moya. - Stayed a bit too long for my champon dinner at Daihachi and ate Turkish rice at some restaurant inside JR Nagasaki station. **Day 6** - Gunkanjima tour. I took this one and they had a Chinese guide (iirc Chinese on odd days and English on even days, refer to the site). Definitely worth a visit, and if you can, just follow the Chinese/English guide if you can get on the island. Their group work separately from the Japanese ones, so it's not as packed. Also protip, sit on the right side of the boat. - Lunch was at Yossou, most famous for their chawanmushi. It's filled with all kinds of different things inside and the egg is really smooth. Recommended, though I didn't need to wait as a solo traveler, I feel that you might need to line up a little if you come in groups. - Megane bridge was like a 15 minute visit for me. - Glover garden was a nice place to stroll around in. Via tram, I got off at the last station instead of the one they recommended. This one has elevators that take you to the rear entrance, which basically means you're walking downhill instead of uphill, so better on my knees, at least. The views are not bad, though there's a couple buildings in renovation. - Had a bit of time left, so I went to Chinatown (very not impressed - just a block basically, most shops closed). Also went to Dejima, which is a recreation of a past area in the city. I liked that a little bit more. - Went to Daihachi before realizing it's freaking closed. Still determined that I need to eat my champon, I ate in . It was okay. - Went by train to Kumamoto from Nagasaki. Took the Shinkansen to Takeo, then express to Shin Tosu (a very empty station that's basically built for the Shinkansen), then Shinkansen to Kumamoto. - Stayed at Dormy Inn Kumamoto. Didn't stay around the JR station because the bus terminal is next to the hotel. Also Dormy Inn slaps hard. Free onsen, popisicles, shoyu ramen for a late night snack, multiple laundry machines with a status indicator that you can view from your room's TV? I'm going to seek out Dormy Inn the next time I visit Japan. **Day 7** - Now a slow day here to check out Kumamoto proper. Suizenji is a great place to visit. Love the little mount Fuji replica they made, as you walk around the park, the angles you see changes and the scene is a little different (obviously). I liked it. - Also walked towards the Luffy statue once I'm done with the Suizenji. You can also buy a mini replica at the Lawson in the basement floor of the government building behind. The nice lady at the Lawson said that I can also get a card of Luffy somehow but the direction she pointed me at made me lost a bit so I dropped that idea. - Wanted to eat ramen at but turns out it's not open that day, thankfully before I decided to walk all the way back there. Instead took the bus since I wanted to go to Kumamoto castle after, so I got off at the city hall, and ate at Keika Ramen. Best damn ramen I had in the trip, though Kumamoto ramen is very heavy in garlic. - Also take the elevator to the city hall's 14th floor for a view of Kumamoto castle. - It was raining hard and I didn't have an umbrella so I went back to the hotel to repack my stuff and bring out an umbrella at around 4pm. Took the tram, and then walked to the Sakura no baba Josaien first for the ticket. The ticket center's closed. I panicked a little, but still moved on towards the castle. Turns out the castle closes at 5pm, but I can still purchase the ticket right outside. Also it's just me, but the Josaien felt very tourist-trappy and I didn't spend any time aside from wondering why I can't purchase tickets. - Kumamoto castle area is mostly rebuilt and you're on a specially built walkway towards the castle instead of walking at ground level. Clearly the earthquake's damage is not fully recovered with the walls, but the castle is now reinforced and renewed. Outside, it looked awesome in black. Inside it's also a museum basically, and it also shows you the past history. But with limited time, I had to speedrun the castle. - Dinner at Katsuretsu Tei Shinshigai. I expected more people there, but I didn't really needed to wait. The tonkatsu was great and the pork was flavorful. **Day 8** - Thanks to the location of the hotel I can just walk across the street to take the long distance bus to Takachiho. It takes around 3 hours (including a break midway). I booked for the bus via Willer Express. - Had lunch in Nagomi, they cook the steak a bit and let you do the rest by cooking it on a piece of hot stone. The beef is delicious. If I could, I should've ordered for the A5 wagyu instead, but it was still great. - Takachiho gorge is a little bit out there and takes about 30 minutes for you to walk from town. There's a lot of downhill walking towards the gorge, and the walk back, and it is a little tiring. There is a bus but it doesn't take you to the gorge, only about halfway. The gorge itself is...gorgeous (har har). There is supposed to be a boat ride but it was closed the day I got there. Still there's a few viewing angles for the gorge, so do spend a bit of time there (because the uphill walk with those hairpin turns on the way back definitely did my knee). - I still had a bit of time, so I checked on what to do before the return bus arrives. I saw the Amaterasu Railway on Google map and the reviews say it's a 30 minute ride, so I walked there (more uphill!). I also saw that they have a museum which I asked about but the lady there doesn't seem to want me to get that ticket, so I only took the mini-train. The ride was 2000 yen and was definitely a bit more geared towards kids, and the conductor only explains things in Japanese, but it was a fun ride. I took the last train at 3pm. - After taking the bus back to Kumamoto I ate at a sushi joint because Kumamoto's horse meat sashimi is a thing. Its taste is a little strong, but at least I tried it, I suppose. **Day 9** - Day trip to Kagoshima. Wanted to get the one day pass, but the tourist center lady suggested that I get the \"cute pass\" which also includes the ferry and buses on Sakurajima, so I bought that for 1200 yen. Note that Kagoshima has its own IC card and doesn't accept others, so you can't use your Suica/Icoca/whatever there. - Took the tourist bus to Sengan-an. Also ate lunch there. It has a full view of Sakurajima, and you can also buy a ticket to the main building inside the park (I bought it as a combo). Can probably spend around 2+ hours there. - Then went to Sakurajima after, also via the tourist bus. I mostly went to the Yunohira observation deck, which offers a view of the mountain and back to the city. Do check out the bus schedule, even though they stay there for an extended time, because there's little to do on the observation deck. - Dinner I ate at Kagoshima as well, as I craved for some tempura I went to Nakamura in Amu plaza Kagoshima. - That night I experienced the earthquake after I went back to Kumamoto (see above). **Day 10** - This day is supposed to be leaving for Aso, then Beppu. In the end, I only visited Aso, and changed plans to head back to Fukuoka via Kumamoto after. - For mount Aso, taking the bus up there is a must unless you have a car, but first do make a stop at Kusasenri regardless. The volcano museum while worth having a look (very educational however everything is in Japanese). It'll tell you the volcano's level on that day, though you obviously can check out the website. If it's at level 2 or above, going further down the road or to the bus' last station near the top doesn't make a lot of sense because you won't get to see the volcano unless you choose to wait for the helicopter. - But Kusasenri itself is a nice place to check out. It offers a viewing of the volcano which is constantly spewing smoke. It's also a big flat piece of grassland that you don't get to see often, I suppose. There's also a horse ride, but it's a 5 minute ride and it's guided. I don't think it's worth checking out. - I had lunch there, but it's not really anything special. - After my trip at Aso I hastily booked a hotel in Fukuoka near Hakata station and worked my way back to Kumamoto via local train, then to Fukuoka via Shinkansen. - Had dinner at Ichiran. It's good, though at the same time...it is kinda the McDonald's of ramen? - Checked out the Yatai at Nakasu. Definitely THE Yatai area to go to, though I didn't eat there, just walked alongside the Yatai stalls. - The hastily booked hotel was Nest Hotel Hakata Station. It's kinda no frills, but I liked it enough that I wouldn't mind staying here again. **Day 11** - This day is supposed to be in Beppu, but now that I'm in Fukuoka, might as well check out some places and make use of my last day of JR pass. - So I decided to head to Uminonakamichi. It's a giant park, plus an aquarium. I checked out the aquarium first - it's definitely one of the better ones (most impressive one was the one in Okinawa) I've been to. There's so many interactive stuff that you can do in there. Also the restaurant also offers you a view of the dolphin tank. I enjoyed my time there. - For Uminonakamichi proper it's way too big to walk on foot. Maybe if I rented a bicycle (which I suck at), it's easier to traverse. One thing I definitely do want to recommend is the flower field. It's an impressive sight and is also where most people in the park go to. - Had an early dinner at Hakata Issou. It's between Shin Shin and Ichiran when it comes to how strong the taste is, though initially there is a slightly pungent smell in the ramen. It is delicious however. Maybe it's because I ate it earlier than most people at 5pm-ish, but there were open seats. - Bought souvenirs in Hankyu and Hakata station. - Hotel was across the street basically from yesterday, in Hakata Tokyu REI Hotel. If you ask me I prefer Nest Hotel (and Oriental Tenjin) over it. **Day 12** - Basically just heading straight for the airport after breakfast in hotel. If I didn't mention before, the proximity of the airport to the city is very nice. Just two stations to/from Hakata, and 4 stations to/from Tenjin. - One thing I didn't like about the airport is the split of domestic and international, and it's connected via a shuttle bus. I hope it gets better in the future. And that's all! Hope this helps anyone going to Kyushu in the future."}
{"id": "0100", "text": "I had originally drafted my trip report in one post and had to separate them due to the character limit but the formatting got a bit messed up, apologies! Part 1 can be found here **DAY 8: Kichijoji, Tokyo** While walking to breakfast we were tempted by the smell of donuts at **PIECE OF BAKE**. They were fluffy and filled with cream, this style seems to be trendy as we saw it a few times. Recommend! We continued to get in a line that we thought was for **Satou Kichijji**, but actually was for a sweet shop next door, Ozasa. After getting in the correct line we bought their famous beef croquettes. They'd been sold to me as extraordinary and while they were really good they weren't able to live up to the hype for me personally. After the croquette we walked to **Inokashira Park** and began heading to the **Ghibli Museum**. The walk was lovely, I really love this park, with lots of flowers and many ducks. I especially loved passing all the people sitting in the sun reading books on park benches. We stopped at **Inokashira Benzaiten**, a Buddhist temple in the park by the lake. I don't know if they normally write goshuin stamps directly into your book but when I handed my book to them they spoke to someone in the back and told me to come back in a few minutes. My husband has never seen a Ghibli movie and isn't into anime so I had just gotten a ticket for myself while he could do some exploring on his own. I lined up around 15 minutes early for my 12pm time slot, at which point there was already a fairly substantial queue. I think the people behind me had a later slot and after showing the attendant their ticket he pulled them out of the line. To get my ticket I had three devices open, two phones and one computer, and signed into the website 30 minutes early. One of the phones randomly disconnected and had to be refreshed, for some reason that was the device that got the best number in line (7000 something). The other two devices got 13000 and 15000 if I remember correctly. I've loved Miyazaki movies since discovering a VHS copy of Kiki's Delivery Service at my library as a child but the museum was not for me. I'm not upset about my visit since the cost was very low and I'd wanted to go for awhile, but I doubt I'll go back. As other people have reported it was very noisy and crowded with long lines for everything. It's a lovely space and with fewer people it would have been fantastic, people with a higher tolerance for crowds may enjoy it more. I think the short film alone was worth the price of admission (adorable sumo mice!) but I didn't stay long. My disappointment was lifted when upon leaving from the museum I was greeted by several cherry blossom trees in full bloom. I'm fairly confident they were cherry blossoms since the flowers had the notches in the center of the petals, I'm no tree expert though. The trees were full of birds eating nectar, it was magnificent. We were too early for full cherry blossom season so I felt very grateful to be able to take photos and enjoy the ambiance. After meeting back up with my husband we grabbed a drink at **Craft Beer Market Atre**, which had an excellent selection of Japanese craft beers, and then went to **Nakano Broadway** for shopping. I had read you could buy used watches there and wanted to get one for him as a present. Unfortunately I know nothing about watches and did not realize that even the cheapest ones were several THOUSAND dollars, which was more than I had to spend. Instead we window-shopped, looked at a bunch of anime figurines, and played a confusing quasi-gambling game with coins. For dinner we walked to my favorite izakaya, **Bakawarai Junsui**. I went here on my first trip to Japan and it's now a staple of any visit, it is the absolute best. The staff are incredibly welcoming and the food is amazing. I swear the friendliness is infectious as I always end up laughing and joking with the other patrons, if you do come here definitely sit at the bar if you can. There isn't an English menu but if you tell the staff what you like they make great recommendations. We ate our way through sashimi, steak, this amazing cheese-honey thing, curry potatoes, and their signature omelet. After a lot of laughing and joking we ended the night taking tequila shots with the staff. At first my husband was a little confused why this was a required excursion, but by the end of the evening he was converted. If you're going to be in Kichijoji in the late afternoon/evening for the Ghibli Museum I highly recommend this place for dinner. **STEP COUNT: 19,220** **DAY 9: Asakusa, Tokyo** We said goodbye to Kichijoji and headed to **Asakusa View Hotel** to drop off our luggage. An imposingly large hotel with fancy lobby, it was surprisingly cheap (something like $80 per night). It had a checkout time of 12pm, the latest of our trip. We were upgraded to an executive suite on the 24th floor, the room was narrow but the view was impressive. They also offered the most bonus amenities like a bunch of skincare samples and bath salts, and when we accidentally left some things they held them for us, I'd recommend this place. The train ride was fine but at some of our transfers we weren't able to find elevators and had to carry our luggage up several flights of stairs. It could have been worse, we only had a backpack and small roller bag each, but still wasn't ideal. We also noticed that it is the custom to flip your backpack around to your front to make sure you don't accidentally knock into anyone. To my surprise I did not like Asakusa as a whole. It was crowded and had restaurants that seemed to have inflated prices. The hotel was neat and it was really cool to spend a night so high up, but if I could do it over I would have skipped staying there and added an extra night in Kichijoji. Even when we walked around at night or early in the morning it was already busy. I had heard Asakusa was nice to stay in because it's quieter than Shinjuku or Shibuya, and I guess by comparison it probably is, but if you want things more mellow I'd stay elsewhere. We first went to a sushi restaurant to meet our guide for a food tour I booked through AirBNB. On the tour we had sushi, soba, taiyaki and matcha ice cream, and for the first time on a tour we were paired with other tourists. It's slightly more geared for first-time travelers to Japan but I think it was worth the cost, at the sushi place we tried selections we would not have picked on our own. Tuna head meat is shockingly tasty! The guide also made an effort to make recommendations for things to do around Tokyo which I appreciated. After the tour we picked up shichimi togarashi at **Yagenbori** and some lovely pottery at **Dengama**, my favorite being a crescent moon and bunny chopstick rest. In the evening we checked out **ALL (W)RIGHT -sake place-**, a sake brewery that makes doburoku. Doburoku is a very traditional style of sake where the rice and rice molt are fermented but not strained. I consider myself a fan of sake, and while this is not my favorite style it was really cool to try it. They have other styles as well and you can tell they experiment (for instance they had an IPA sake with CBD). For dinner I had put \"find something good on hoppy street!\" in the itinerary which not the correct choice. Places were full, the ones that had space seemed overpriced, so we wandered back towards our hotel getting increasingly hangry. We settled on a teppanyaki place with good reviews. They almost turned us a away for being full but after deliberating for a minute said they could squeeze us in. I'm not going to call them out by name as I don't think we had a fair experience to judge them. The food was fine, not terrible but not really worth the price in my opinion, but what really colored the evening was how stressed all the staff seemed. Our server American, and while I appreciate that he explained they were having a really tough night we probably wouldn't have noticed so it mainly served to make us feel really guilty for inconveniencing them. He also said they partially took us because he had had so many negative experiences being turned away at restaurants for being a foreigner even though he spoke fluent Japanese, and he didn't want us to think that's why they said they were full. Honestly we wouldn't have thought that way, and everywhere that turned us away on our trip appeared legitimately full, but still a nice gesture. Both him and the hostess apologized a bunch and gave us multiple gifts as we left, including a neat fold-out card with a hanging crane that is now displayed in our room, but I still feel guilty for adding to their stress and wish we had just made a reservation or gone to a different area. **STEP COUNT: 19,920** **DAY 10: Ebisu, Tokyo** I was up earlier then my husband and decided to try **Cafe Tomorrow Asakusa** as I was craving a traditional Japanese breakfast. I should have been wary after I saw it only cost 880 yen, but it was still a letdown after how spectacular our breakfasts were at the ryokan and in Yakushima. It did, however, fill me up and was extremely cheap so I'm not upset. It opens at 7am and when I got there at 730 it was already pretty full, but the time I left at 815 there was a line down the stairs. If you're looking for a budget breakfast option this would be a good place. My husband wanted a large meal before playing soccer later so we packed our things and walked to **Suke6 Diner**. We had a short wait but it wasn't bad, and the diner is in a nice location by the river. He had a \"full English breakfast\" which didn't quite live up to the name but was still good, and I had a chocolate croissant. Croissant was 10/10, I wish I had ordered a bunch to go. Feeling reticent to schlep our luggage on the trains again we opted to take a taxi to our AirBNB in Ebisu. I picked the location for it's price and because I'd heard Ebisu is a nice area, somewhat close to Shinjuku but not too close. On my first trip I had exclusively stayed in AirBNBs and found I enjoyed the experience of pretending to live in Tokyo so I wanted my husband to have that too, but I think AirBNBs have changed in the last 6 years. This one was nice but really just felt like a slightly larger hotel room, with the added benefit of a very fancy washer/dryer in the room. It was a single machine that does both! I'm sure that technology exists in the US, and there's probably a reason they aren't common here, but I thought it was super cool and want one. On the plus side the host let us check-in three hours early and I loved how quiet and residential the area was. My husband left to play soccer with a group he found on Meetup (an experience he really loved and recommends) while I went to **IBREW EBISU**. I love craft beer, especially IPAs, and found this to be a cool place. It did take me embarrassingly long to find as it's two floors down from street-level, and I struggled to open the heavy metal doors and thought they might be locked, but those minor hurdles made finding the bar more satisfying. Great selection, various price points, shockingly good falafel. I read my book and had a few beers before heading back. My husband is a diehard Arsenal fan so after resting we left to check out **HIGHBURY -THE HOME OF BEER-** in Shinjuku. While trying to navigate we got terribly lost in Shinjuku station and spent a good 20 minutes attempting to locate our transfer. There were lots of signs but I think because of the construction that is happening they aren't always accurate. After exiting to the street and walking a few blocks we did manage to find the connection and get to the bar. The theming of the bar is very cool but we unfortunately happened to go on a night where someone was doing an unrelated presentation on Chinese beer so it wasn't the 'meet local Arsenal fans!' experience I was hoping for. The staff was polite and answered his questions about the memorabilia, the bathroom is especially themed, so we stayed for one beer and left. We strolled to Shinjuku station, admiring the bright lights and party atmosphere, before making our way home. I had put \"find something at the Ebisu yokocho!\" for dinner but by the time we made it back most places were last-call or closed. While walking to the apartment we came across **Taihouki Gyoza** and picked it mostly because it stayed open until 3am. The place was packed with people, the food was hearty but nothing extraordinary, we had a nice time. **STEP COUNT: 23,930** **DAY 11: Ebisu, Tokyo** My husband was feeling rather sore from soccer so I walked to **Sarutahiko Coffee** for coffee while he rested. The weather was perfect, I passed a small pond filled with aquatic plants and fish, it was just one of those lovely Tokyo experiences you get from just wandering through residential neighborhoods. Sarutahiko was pretty busy despite being quite literally next to a Starbucks and Blue Bottle Coffee, the coffee and the guava cake were both good. In the early afternoon we went to **Takeshita Street** in Harajuku which was completely packed to the gills with people. We did a bit of shopping and then walked to Oreryu Shio-Ramen for spicy fried chicken and cheese ramen. They are cash only and at this point of the trip we were getting low, but we managed to pay with a bunch of leftover coins. The ramen was quite good, I'd put it below Seiyoken but above Ichiran. We started walking to **Meiji Shrine**, this area was also pretty packed. We ended up paying to go into the gardens hoping for more quiet, something similar to Sengan-en, but I think March might be the worst time to visit. Everything was brown, very few flowers, and any tranquility was overshadowed by a loud concert happening in Yoyogi Park. We turned around before reaching the shrine, I think we either should have gone there first before shopping or visited early in the morning. We had 2pm tickets to **TeamLab Borderless** so we headed there next. I had decided on Borderless instead of Planets because I don't love getting my feet wet, and I thought it would be cool to check out Borderless right after it reopened. The space is located inside a mall so be mindful about giving yourself time to navigate, it's not a standalone building. I had heard there were long lines to get in but there weren't any for us, we were able to drop off our shopping bags at complimentary lockers and walk straight in. Borderless was excellent, if you go make sure to take your time with the different rooms. I wish we had been slightly less tired when we went, by this point in the trip our feet were pretty sore. I recommend the experience but wouldn't necessarily go again unless it was changed significantly.The previous day I had made a dinner reservation for **Mizunotori (previously GEM by moto)**. It was easy to make one through Google, but don't be like me and tell yourself that the reservation was for 630 when you had actually made it for 6! They graciously still sat us and were nice about my error. This was an awesome restaurant, really delicious food and a great place to get exposed to different types of sake. My husband is not a sake guy and they were able to find one he liked. We felt a bit underdressed so I'd wear slightly nicer clothes if you come here. The staff was attentive and chatty, they educated us about sake and we stayed until closing. **STEP COUNT: 23,000** **DAY 12: Asakusa, Tokyo** Our last day(s) were centered around staying at **cyashitsu ryokan asakusa**, which I had seen recommended on this sub. It's has a minimalist tea house aesthetic, since it was our last night I had booked the room with a private outdoor bath. If you book this room they will warn you that the bathroom is not inside the room, but it's quite literally one door over and we never ran into anyone in the hallway, honestly two of our other hotel rooms had bathrooms that were further away. It was lovely but I don't think it's necessary to get the room with it's own private bath, they have a larger outdoor bath that you can reserve that seemed empty most of the time. After dropping off our luggage we went to **The Burger Craft**, picked mostly because of the reviews and proximity to where we were. Service was slow, there was just a cook and a waitress and they were handling both dine-in and take out orders, and my husband and I are split on the food. I loved my Quattro Cheese Burger, he got the BBQ Bacon Cheeseburger and disliked the buns and found it under seasoned. You do have to order a beverage other than water so keep that in mind if you're budgeting. After lunch we decided to check out the **Asakusa Don Quixote** and **SkyTree**. Don Quixote was a zoo but fun, we picked up gifts for people but actually found a better selection with cheaper prices at Asakusa ROX the following day. At SkyTree my husband attempted to get a ticket to the observation deck but saw the line and decided to skip it, I hate heights and had Starbucks while he investigated. We explored for a bit, I swear it looked very different in 2017 but that could just be my mind playing tricks on me. While adding money to our IC before getting on the train a solo tourist in front of us in line tried to add money using a credit card but all the charging stations were cash only. She seemed really stressed so we lent her some cash, but another good reason to always carry a bit of cash with you if you don't have Suica on your phone! We left early to get to **Saitamaya Yakiton** as it opened at 4pm and I had heard the lineup starts as early as 330pm. It's a bit out of the way to get to, and on this particular windy Monday there was only one person waiting when we got there at 345 so that information may be outdated. We were seated at 4 and they began service, by the time we left around 6 the place was full and there was a line. If I could only recommend three restaurants to people it would be Umi-no Cottage Tida, Bakawarai Junsui, and this place. You have to order at least one alcoholic beverage, it's also not a great choice if you're a picky eater, but if you're open to trying new things and want a fun night this is the place for it. You get 9 grilled meat skewers, what they are varies but you don't get to pick them, there are also additional small plates you can purchase. This was the first time I've ever enjoyed liver or intestine, if they normally tasted like this I'd eat them all the time. Also the pig cartilage was unreasonably good?? It's a family run business, no phones or photography is allowed so you get to know your seatmates (we did use our phones to communicate through google translate which was fine), the man on our left has been coming here once a month for 20 years. We showed him our pictures from Yakushima, he showed us pictures of his hometown, it was a nice conversation. I consumed many lemon sours, my husband found he loved the lemon hoppys, and when we told the owner we were on our honeymoon he grilled us some special wagyu beef which was probably the best single bite of our trip. The owner and his family speak a bit of English but we mostly used our phones to communicate which worked fine. After resting at our hotel we decided to search for a karaoke bar to finish our trip. I can't find the name of the place but while it was fine I don't think you'd need to add it to a trip plan. There was a sign outside that said 'karaoke!' so we went in, but after sitting down we found out the karaoke started at 9 which was in about an hour and a half. We decided to stay, had a few more drinks and some snacks, only to discover at 9 that the karaoke was in a separate small space down the street that you rented by the hour. I wasn't thrilled with this turn of events, we had really enjoyed singing with others in Yakushima and if we wanted to rent a space to ourselves we could have done that earlier in the night. Looking back I wish we had just said this wasn't what we were looking for and left, but at the time I was worried about coming across as rude so we went along with it. It was fine but the sound quality was worse than the bar in Yakushima. On the bright side it did make me appreciate how nice that place was! **STEP COUNT: 19,880** **Day 13: Asakusa, Tokyo** Our flight wasn't until 9pm so I had set aside this day for shopping. The breakfast at cyashitsu was very nice although probably ranked lowest of the ryokan breakfasts (Umi-no Cottage Tida first, Anraku Onsen Shumine second), but it was still better than any hotel breakfast I've had in the States. They also very sweetly gave us a special plate wishing us a happy honeymoon and took a polaroid picture of us in our yukata. I had paid to check out late but we were still almost even more late after I lost track of time in my bath, but we made it downstairs at 11 on the dot. They very nicely agreed to hold our luggage while we went shopping, and made some suggestions on places to go. We first went to **Asakusa ROX**, a multi-story shopping mall with a bunch of small shops, mainly to get some children's books for my friend's children. It took us awhile to find the bookstore but while searching for it we found a ton of other rad souvenirs. The bookstore had several bilingual books, which is what I was searching for, so all in all an unexpectedly successful excursion. We then went to **B-Side Label**, a really cool sticker store, in Harajuku. I love this store and have been every trip since discovering it, but I usually go to the Kichijoji branch. If you have the option I'd recommend that branch over the Harajuku one as it's a larger store and less crowded. Their other merch is also really neat and the stickers make great gifts. We started getting hungry around 3, which is no mans land restaurant-wise as many places close after lunch and reopen later for dinner. I had a bunch of restaurants pinned but they all fell into this category so we ended up at **Gyukatsu Kyoto Katsugyu Harajuku**. There was a short wait but this place was excellent! Instead of pork katsu it's beef, and you grill it at the table over these small pots. Maybe too many options for dipping, it was kind of overwhelming, but that's not a really a complaint per se, and the beef was excellent. When we went to pay there was a group of tourists ahead of us that got frustrated with the staff when they couldn't split their bill three ways so maybe keep that in mind if you're a larger group. After our late lunch we went back to the hotel to pick up our luggage and decided to get to the airport early since we were checking bags. The least amount of walking had us taking a bus to Nippori Station and then transferring to the Narita Skyliner, we briefly panicked when the bus took slightly longer then estimated and our transfer window was only 8 minutes but we made it in time! The Narita Airport is nice, something I read said the food options were better before security so we went to grab dinner and did some last minute Uniqlo shopping where I found the best pair of workpants, I wish I had bought 3 more. Security took roughly 2 minutes, afterwards we did a bit more shopping and loaded up on snacks at the Family Mart. I liked ZipAir, it's a budget airline but the katsu sandwich was surprisingly good and the service was attentive. We got lucky and there were multiple empty rows so we both moved and slept most of the flight. **STEP COUNT: 18,310** **FINAL THOUGHTS:** If you've gotten this far I hope you'll find some of it helpful for planning your own trip, my husband and I had an amazing time and are hoping to return soon. If you have any questions please let me know, I'm happy to answer!"}
{"id": "0101", "text": "A big thank you to all the help I got on this sub while planning! Keep in mind that this is just one experience, your mileage may vary with any of the suggestions made. **INFO ON US:** Mid 30s, this was my third trip to Japan (previously 2017 &amp; 2018), my husband's first, and I picked the Kyushu spots because his only request was somewhere 'off the beaten path'. Kyushu is amazing! This was by-far my best trip, although to be fair it was also our honeymoon. The post went long so I split it into two parts, the first being the Kyushu leg and the second being the Tokyo one. **THINGS I WOULD HAVE DONE DIFFERENTLY:** * We spent 6 days in Kyushu and 7 days in Tokyo, I would have preferred to add two extra days to Yakushima and one day to Kagoshima and spent less time in Tokyo. I love Tokyo and am glad we went but it felt very overwhelming and expensive after our experiences in the South. * Flown directly to Tokyo and then flown Tokyo to Fukuoka instead of having a layover in Hawaii. The extra five hours of flying really killed us, and made both flights feel longer. I incorrectly thought Hawaii was 'on the way' because my grasp of geography is tenuous at best. * Utilized coin lockers at train stations. A few days we lugged our backpacks/shopping bags around only to realize at the end of the day that we could have easily ditched them. * This may be controversial, but researched and had more alternative options pinned for restaurants. The days I put 'find something good in X area!' were our most disappointing food choices. * Not been afraid of buses. My last trips I had significant issues with navigating them (couldn't find the bus stop, got on the wrong bus, bus came at weird times) but this trip it was incredibly easy, especially with the IC card. I planned some activities around avoiding the bus which was unnecessary. * Picked a 10AM time slot for the Ghibli Museum, when I came at 12 it was packed * This is going to seem very obvious, but moved around less in Tokyo. I got stuck with an AirBNB reservation that I didn't cancel quickly enough, but oh boy were we tried of our luggage by the end. **GENERAL RECOMMENDATIONS YOU MAY HAVE HEARD BEFORE:** * The IC card made riding trains and buses incredibly easy and no matter where you get your card it will work anywhere in Japan that IC cards are accepted. * While many places take card now it's important to still have backup cash available * The Charles Schwab checking account travel card has no foreign transaction fees and reimburses ATM fees at the end of the month. I also got lucky and ordered about $500 worth of yen from my bank while the rates were really good. For us $1500 USD each was enough for food, transportation, and souvenirs * Google maps worked well everywhere except a few rural areas. You do, however, have to be mindful of what floor a store is on! * On prior trips AirBNBs were cheaper/more convenient than hotels but this time I found the reverse to be true. * Out motto before leaving was 'take half the clothes and twice the money'. We had a backpack and smaller rolling bag each, the roller bag was about half-full of clothing. We brought 6 days worth of clothes and did laundry twice, I brought detergent slips to use. * I planned by putting pins on Google Maps on everything I heard might be cool/was recommended/I found reading other trip reports and from there created my itinerary based on proximity. I also labeled the pins with different icons (one for food, one for stores, one for shrines etc). I was glad to have a ton of options as it allowed us a lot of alternatives depending on our mood. The itinerary had one or two 'must do' items each day and the rest we decided impulsively * It was really helpful to know basic Japanese and I have a slight suspicion we got seated a couple times because I knew how to correctly indicate there were two in our party. I had taken a language course online, it was mostly helpful for numbers and simple interactions but still worth the time I put in. * Google Lens seems to have improved and would now translate hand-written menus, although mysteriously my husband would often get better results than me * Almost everyone we interacted with spoke enough English for us to reach understanding, when we couldn't we used Google Translate. A lot of people seemed to have Google Translate already downloaded on their phones. **DAY 0: Fukuoka** We arrived in the evening and breezed through customs and immigration, I think maybe it took 15 minutes total? Definitely use the QR code, we got to skip the only longer line because of it. After picking up our Namoca cards (the local IC card) and our pocket wifi we opted to take a cab to the hotel as my husband contracted food poisoning at the Hawaii airport and was feeling as well as you'd expect after spending 10 hours in an airplane bathroom. We stayed at the **Nishitetsu Grand Hotel.** Really great location and service but the rooms were a bit outdated and we could not control the air conditioning. This would become a theme at many of our hotels! Most were set at something like 75 degrees so we baked at night. This hotel at least had a notice on the thermostat, the rest just had controls that did nothing or would only let us turn off the air temporarily before automatically turning it back on. When we checked in I inquired about forwarding our luggage to Kagoshima and the receptionist suggested we send it two days early, which was a bummer as it meant we had to take two days worth of clothing in our backpacks. Not a huge deal, but something to keep in mind if you're planning on forwarding luggage. For dinner we went to **Torikizoku**, a very cheap yakitori chain. There was a small wait and the food isn't spectacular, but it's inexpensive and easy after a very long flight and you don't feel bad only ordering a few items. After dinner we withdrew money from the 7-11 ATM, grabbed snacks, and called it a night. **DAY 1: Fukuoka** Despite staying up until 9pm we woke up at 430am. We both felt too excited to sleep anymore and decided to just get up and get breakfast tonkotsu ramen at the 24-hour **Ichiran** flagship store. We leisurely meandered along the river stopping to take pictures of small shrines and temples, the streets of Fukuoka are very peaceful first thing in the morning. Ichiran was unexpectedly busy, with a line forming by the time we left. It ended up being our least-favorite ramen of the trip but is by no means bad, just very heavy. After returning to the hotel to rest for a bit I started what would become my daily tradition of tracking down a coffee shop for caffeine. I was surprised to find that many did not open until 9 or 10. This morning I went to **Manu Coffee,** and my attempts to use my Japanese reading skills were thwarted by the barista very nicely flipping their menu over to the English side. It's a cool shop with eclectic dcor and one of the best coffees I had in Japan, I wish I had picked up some beans. At 10AM we had an Airbnb tour of Hakata Temples and Shrines, which I highly recommend if you're in Fukuoka. The tour is run by a retired couple who do this for fun, it was just the four of us going to various locations. They were knowledgeable, funny, and generally a great hang. We learned a lot and it was nice to have insight into temples and shrines for the remainder of our trip. If you only go to one temple in Fukuoka I recommend **Tochoji Temple** for the giant wooden Buddha. It was here I acquired my goshuincho and got my first stamp! After the tour we went back to the hotel to forward our luggage (an incredibly easy process, we showed them the next hotel address and paid, they took care of the rest) before going to **Canal City Hakata** for shopping and the fountain show. The mall has neat architecture and the show was charming but I wouldn't go out of the way for it. I'll say that after shopping in Tokyo I appreciate how uncrowded and calm it felt! Finally we had dinner at **Tempura Hirao** and drinks at **Citadel**. The food at Hirao was good but not amazing, although our rating might be biased from how tired we were. The portions were GIANT, the price affordable, but the best thing was discovering that we liked shiokara (salted squid). It's appearance was a bit off-putting, slimy and grey, but it tasted amazing with lots of yuzu flavor. Citadel was the real standout of the evening. They had a large selection of homemade liquor including truly bizarre flavors like Bolognese. The one picture I took that night shows a flight of Orange Gin, Lavender Gin, and Oolong Tea Gin; and they have things other than gin, that's just my favorite liquor. I'm not sure if the bartender is always this friendly or just wanted to practice her English but we spent over an hour chatting and laughing with her before calling it a night. Sit at the bar if you can! Step Count: 29,611 **DAY 2: Dazaifu and Kurume** We managed to sleep until 6am and spent a relaxed morning enjoying children's television, another staple of our trip. We often caught one that had various Rube Goldberg machines, there was another with puppets and stop motion animation that we enjoyed. My favorite from the trip was a segment that explained menstrual cycles, it's nice that it's destigmatized! After packing and heading out I introduced my husband to the joys of warm vending machine drinks and the ease and convenience of the Japanese rail system as we navigated to Dazaifu for the day. Our first stop was **Kazamidori ()** for coffee and tea. It's a neat little store with beautiful china cups and antique furniture. My husband, who is a British by birth and and an avid tea drinker, rated this the best cup of tea of the trip. Now adequately caffeinated we shopped on the main street, including a stop at a very cute Ghibli store, before making our way to **Tenmangu Shrine**. Despite being a weekday the main shrine was busy so we wandered up to **Tenkaiinari Shrine**, which took us on a really lovely walk through the forest. We paid our respects, I got my goshuin stamp from Tenmangu, and we headed to the **Kyushu National Museum**. When buying our museum tickets I thought we could either get a ticket to the special exhibition OR regular exhibitions but not both on one ticket so we picked the special exhibition. This was wrong, and luckily we got kind of lost after finishing the special exhibition and discovered we could access both. The special exhibition was on the works of Nagasawa Rosetsu and to be honest we weren't that excited and mostly went because it's a style we hadn't seen before, but it is pretty spectacular in person and I don't think online images can do the artwork justice. The regular exhibitions were also neat, especially the artifacts from before the 1500s, but we went through them rather quickly as I started to get shooting pain in my feet with every step. After a short train and bus ride we got to our hotel for the night, **Green Rich Hotel Kurume.** I had originally booked a different hotel but swapped to this one after realizing we would have had a \"Small Double Bed\" and while we enjoy cuddling we are also starfish sleepers. Green Rich Hotel was an unexpected delight, with a giant room that had a surprise massage chair. I'm not sure how or why we got a massage chair, I didn't see anything about that amenity when I booked the room, but it was very needed after so much walking. It's a modern hotel with hot-spring public bath, although we have tattoos and when we asked if we could use it we were told no. Despite this I'd still recommend the hotel. Kurume doesn't seem to get a lot of international tourists and we were asked by many people why we picked it. Simple answer: RAMEN. About 7 years ago I watched a video about **Kurume Ramen Seiyoken** and it had been a goal ever since. After utilizing the massage chair we opted to take a bus to the restaurant and I am happy to report it was the best ramen of our trip. The tonkotsu ramen was thick and creamy without being heavy or greasy and the fried rice was superb. The staff was friendly and helpful as well, I continue to think back fondly of that ramen. Honestly Kurume seemed like a nice town, I probably could have added a day there too. Step Count: 20,347 **DAY 3: Kagoshima** We had seen a ton of barbershops the night before and spent the morning unsuccessfully trying to track down a haircut for my husband. Almost a disproportionate amount of barbers? It seems wild that Kurume can support that many. Unfortunately the ones that were open didn't have availability until much later in the day so we headed to the train station to book our shinkansen ticket. We did a bit of shopping at the station and I bought one of my favorite items of the trip, a shirt with the Kurume city mascot on it. I don't think I'll ever stop being delighted by the use of mascots in Japan. The next available train was in an hour so we split up, me to find coffee and him to try KFC. **** is a small caf that looks like a grandparents dining room and smells faintly of cigarettes. I was the only customer and had a very basic conversation in Japanese with the friendly older woman working, who I think is one of the owners. The coffee was excellent and cheap, I was proud of myself for knowing enough Japanese to converse, it was a delightful encounter. The train ride was uneventful although I got unreserved seat tickets because they were cheaper, which eventually became standing-room only. About 30 minutes into the hour ride we gave up our seats to an elderly couple and stood the rest of the way, my feet were very displeased that I did not reserve seats. I was pretty shocked by how different Kagoshima felt from other places I have been in Japan. I've done the Kyoto-Nara-Osaka-Hiroshima-Tokyo route, and even been to Shirakawa-go, but Kagoshima just had a different vibe to it. Before leaving the station we purchased the CUTE, a one-day pass that allows unlimited travel on some buses, streetcars and ferries in Kagoshima City and Sakurajima. It ended up not being worth it as we only used it once and the other bus we took was not covered by the pass, but it only cost 1200 yen so I'm not super upset about it. If nothing else it makes a nice souvenir. We rode the tram to our hotel, **Hotel Gate Kagoshima**, to drop off our backpacks. Our luggage was there waiting for us, huzzah! It was one of our smallest rooms and it must have recently been renovated because our room looked nothing like the pictures. We're split on our opinions of it; I really liked the dcor and didn't mind that our room was basically just a giant raised bed with a small space in front that led to the bathroom, my husband claims to have nearly died climbing into it at night and gave it the lowest rating of our hotels. The location was convenient and the staff was helpful, I wouldn't mind staying here again. We were too early to check in but they were happy to hold our bags so we ventured out for lunch. I was craving yakiniku and in my experience these places are far more affordable for lunch so we picked **Gyu do!** based on proximity and rating. Really excellent meat, a brand of black Wagyu beef raised on the restaurants own farm and dry-aged, it was a bit pricey but understandably so. After lunch while walking through the **Tenmonkan arcade** my husband spotted a boat racing gambling spot he wanted to check out, I have no interest in gambling and dropped him off to acquire more coffee. The first place I went was full, and I suspect they were telling me I could wait but when I didn't understand they just did the 'X' finger sign. **Ashitanotizu** was completely empty but the staff was nice and I could tell it was probably a fun place at night, I think it turns into a jazz bar with live music. The waitress, like most people in Kyushu who we spoke to for any length of time, wanted to know what brought us there. She said they were starting to see more international tourists but mostly it's domestic tourists who come to Kagoshima. I also go that vibe, but always felt any curiosity was friendly. Meanwhile my husband was having quite the adventure at the boat races. The only Westerner in a sea of older Japanese gentlemen it took him several tries and the assistance of many people to figure out how to put in the bets. Perhaps unsurprisingly this was the place where the fewest people spoke English, but many people tried very hard to communicate and explain things. He eventually figured it out and had a grand time, it seemed like people enjoyed the novelty of having a tourist there. We both slightly lost track of time and ended up asking our hotel to book a cab to go to **Sengan-en,** a garden and home built by a samurai family in the 17th century. The gardens close at 5pm and had we left earlier we could have used our pass but c'est la vie. Our cab driver was exceptionally amicable and communicated through a translation device that worked impressively well. He talked about living in Kagoshima, recommended some restaurants, and expressed his sadness that Akira Toriyama had passed. We only had a little over an hour at Sengan-en but I'm glad we made the trek, it was a highlight. The weather was beautiful and we were both enchanted by the gardens. One benefit to going later is that it was pretty empty so we wandered alone, taking pictures of Sakurajima (the nearby active volcano) and pretending that we lived there. On the way back we accidentally took a bus not covered by our pass, but the fare was cheap and easily paid with coins. Last-minute I had booked us a bar hopping tour after seeing it featured on Instagram, which started at 6pm. It was less polished than the tour we had in Fukuoka, and we later found out we were actually the first people to book this specific tour, but I'd still recommend it. The guide was very nice, we learned a lot about shochu and went to places we definitely wouldn't have tried without a guide, and eventually we inebriatedly befriended a random Japanese couple who came with us the rest of the night. We definitely drank more than is advisable, especially with an early morning ferry ride ahead of us, but our guide kindly stayed late and we all got ramen before turning in. I'm still friends with both our guide and the couple on Instagram, maybe one day they'll take us up on our offer to come visit! Step Count: 25,408 **DAY 4: Yakushima** We most definitely regretted our choices the next morning as we had to be at the ferry terminal at 700am. I had booked the high-speed ferry in the interest of time, and despite our hangovers we found it to be a smooth ride so we were able to get a bit more sleep before arriving at the Miyanoura Port. When booking a rental car I had briefly panicked as we were arriving on Sunday and it seems that a lot of the rental car places are closed OR it might have been that no cars were available. Luckily I was able to book one through **Budget Rent a Car**, which was off-site from the port so they sent a van to pick us up. It was only about a 5 minute drive, their staff was friendly and helpful, and their office is decorated with hidden kodama in cedar sculptures which was very endearing. It was really easy (kind of alarmingly so) for my husband to get the international license, just a AAA form and passport photos and he was good to go. We loved our little red Kei car and even with fairly substantial driving didn't need to fill up until right before returning the car. Yakushima is magical and was our favorite place of the entire journey. It's known for rain but we were blessed with sunny warm weather our entire trip. After picking up the car we first went to our hotel, **Umi-no Cottage Tida.** It's a small place, run by a husband and wife, with four two-story cottages that have amazing views of both the ocean and mountains. Each cottage has a partially open air bath with it's own ocean view. There's also a friendly orange cat! We had four twin beds in our cottage so we slept separately, but I think that may have helped us sleep more soundly. The only downsides are it's about an hour from Miyanoura, so staying here without renting a car is probably doable but difficult, and there aren't a ton of other dinner options if you don't eat at the hotel. When we checked in we saw they had passionfruit juice for sale and mentioned to the owner that we hadn't had passionfruit before so she cut some open for us to eat immediately, 10/10 some of the best fruit I've ever had in my life. It was a small and thoughtful gesture that was emblematic of our experiences on the island. We still had time to kill before we could officially check into the room so we drove to a grocery store, A-Coop, for supplies and snacks. **The Pizza Bus** happened to be outside, which sounded delicious in our still hungover state. Their bacon and potato pizza was good but could have used more salt, I think a more traditional pizza might have been better as the crust was excellent. After grabbing our pizza we attempted to navigate to a nearby small park by the ocean we found on Google, ****. It's not really a park per se, there's no picnic tables or bathroom, but there is a small shrine and the water was beautiful. On our drive GPS had us go down some VERY narrow streets, to the point where we had to tuck in the side mirrors so as not to scrape them. It was stressful! We did our best to avoid similar roads going forward. After our picnic we impulsively decided to stop at a nearby beach, **Harutahama Beach ()**, to explore tide pools and then made a brief stop at **Torokki Waterfall,** which is a short hike from the main road. The placard informed us that it's one of only two waterfall in Japan that fall directly into the sea. I wouldn't necessarily go out of my way to see it, but if you're passing by it's easily accessible and beautiful. At this point our room was ready so we headed back to the cottage. I had reserved dinner at the hotel the first night so we spent the rest of the evening doing laundry, taking a long bath, and napping. The kaiseki dinner itself was spectacular, one of the best meals of the trip. We ate delicious food while watching the ocean at sunset, and our dessert came with a sparkler and a congratulations on our wedding. It was a very special memory that we'll always cherish. Step Count: 10,441 **DAY 5: Yakushima** In the morning we ate what was easily the best breakfast of our vacation (I still dream of those vegetables) and were asked our plans for the day. Our initial idea to drive around the island was thwarted by the road being closed for repairs, but we decided to drive as far north as we could before turning around. We first stopped at **Ohko Waterfall**, a giant beautiful waterfall that I *would* recommend going out of your way for. As we drove further along the road we encountered dozens of wild monkeys and deer, all hanging out together for some reason. On the ferry we had watched a video of monkeys riding the deer but we didn't get lucky enough for that experience. We saw 0 cars and spent some time just stopped, watching the baby monkeys play from the safety of our car. The deer were slightly perturbed by our presence but the monkeys could not have cared less. We turned around at the bridge and headed counter-clockwise, first stopping at **Hiro Bakery** for snacks. Really cute bakery with lots of variety, we fell in love with these cheese-bacon bread wraps that we tried to get more of the next day but they weren't selling them. Had I known that was our only chance we would have bought out the remainder. There aren't any bathrooms or seats at Hiro so we went to a grocery store down the road for drinks and feasted in the car. After the bakery we drove to **Hanii Kiln**, a small pottery shop in the middle of nowhere. Google wanted us to park on the side of a road and walk through a forest, but as we didn't fancy bushwhacking we went back to where I had seen a sign earlier and followed that instead. We were still worried we had taken a wrong turn and were driving up the long driveway to some strangers home, but it was correct. The shop is run out of the artists home, he was very welcoming and spoke some English. Looking back I wish I had asked him more questions and spoken to him about his pieces more, but I was feeling oddly shy and a bit pressed for time. We bought a number of items, my favorite being a whale incense holder, that all made it home in one piece! It's completely a testament to how well he wrapped them. I had heard he has a dog but we tragically did not see the dog. We waved goodbye and headed to **Yakusugi Land**, a nature preserve with giant ancient cedar trees, for some hiking. The drive was a bit harrowing at times but nothing too intense. You just had to be mindful of the corners as it's one lane in many places and there are giant tour buses. At the preserve there's a nice free informational section above the bathrooms and the trails are well-maintained. You have the option to do a number of different hikes depending on length, the shortest being 30 minutes and the longest 210, we picked the 80 minute course. Gorgeous scenery, we only ran into a couple other hikers. I'd rate us both as moderately in shape and the course wasn't difficult for us. The photos we took don't come close to doing justice to how beautiful it was. After our hike and spending too much money in the gift shop we drove to ****, a very tiny Shinto shrine in the middle of the forest, and **Yaku-jinja,** a larger shrine where I got another goshuin stamp. Both are near Miyanoura and worth a visit. At this point it was about 4pm and my husband was feeling pretty bushed so we decided to forgo waiting for restaurants to open in Miyanoura and began driving the hour back to our hotel. After some more laundry and another bath we picked **BAR ** for dinner, which is labeled on Google as an izakaya but had a very minimal food menu that was half pasta dishes. Although the food options were limited it was still a really fun and memorable night as the one other customer, an older gentleman, encouraged us to sing karaoke with him. We all alternated, my husband and I sang some duets together, and after singing several Disney songs the hostess compared me to Belle which may be one of the highest compliments I've ever received. It was a Monday night and we left pretty early, but I could see this place being especially fun on a busier night. Step Count: 14,968 **DAY 6: Kirishima** After another spectacular breakfast at our hotel we sadly said goodbye to our hosts and headed to drop off the car rental. The cottages were very spacious and had well-equipped kitchens, we definitely wished we had more time especially since we did not manage to make it to the ocean onsens or Shiratani Unsui Gorge. We're already talking about our next trip and would really love to return to Yakushima. We had time for a brief stop at Hiro Bakery again, which tragically did not have our beloved cheese bacon wraps, before dropping off the car. At the ferry terminal we learned that the slower car ferry had been canceled due to weather but ours was still scheduled to leave. Something to keep in mind when booking your transportation! I had booked our tickets several months in advance but it appeared some people were just buying tickets the same day, although this may be unavailable during busier seasons. It also says on the ticket that check in ends 20 minutes before departure but I saw people checking in later then that too, not that you'd want to be late. At the ferry terminal in Kagoshima we purchased a ticket for the airport bus. The Kagoshima airport is pretty far outside the city, I think it took us about an hour to get there, but it was a really beautiful drive with a lot of trees blooming on the hillsides. We had booked another rental car at the airport through **Nissan Rent A Car**. It's offsite so you have to go to a desk to request transport, but after we figured that part out it was easy. This was a much fancier hybrid Kei car with Bluetooth capability and navigation that we first thought but was unnecessary but would later save us. Since we had some time to kill before check-in we did a 7-11 run for snacks and drinks and then headed to **Kagoshima Shrine**. It's a lovely shrine next to a school, during our visit we were serenaded by a band practice. We also got to meet a shrine horse and feed him carrots! Uncrowded and very peaceful, if you visit I recommend walking through the torii gates up to the Inari Shrine where there is a picturesque small shrine in a cave. Our hotel was **Anraku Onsen Shumine ( )**, which was a thirteen minute drive or 30 minute bus ride from the airport. After asking for advice here about renting a car we decided to so we could see more of the area. I had picked this ryokan somewhat at random; I knew I wanted to stay near the airport since we were flying to Tokyo the next day and we also wanted to stay at a ryokan during our trip. This place is small with both western and tatami rooms. We had picked a tatami room to have that experience and were a bit dismayed to learn that since Covid you now had to put down your own futon, but with some googling we figured it out. Where this hotel really shines is the onsen and the food. They had three baths inside and an outdoor onsen facing the mountains, and I honestly could have added an extra day here just to spend more time in it. The inside baths had three different temperatures, the coldest one being a lying down bath with headrest, but my favorite was the outdoor one. I lost track of time watching the trees and listening birds. My husband is not a bath-guy and even he loved the onsen, especially the water. At dinner we discovered that there were two other couples staying at the ryokan but I only ran into someone once, otherwise I had the onsen to myself. The food was very traditional and excellent, I let them know about my allergies when I checked in and they were able to accommodate them. I'd rate the meals at our Yakushima hotel more highly but I'd still happily go to this ryokan again, the fish especially was excellent. STEP COUNT: 10,581 **DAY 7: Kirishima &amp; Tokyo (Kichijoji)** After a full Japanese breakfast and a last dip in the onsen we checked out of the hotel. The couple running it very sweetly went into the road to make sure no cars were coming while we backed out and insisted on carrying our luggage despite my husbands protests. Our flight wasn't until 3pm so we decided to drive to **Kirishima Jingu**. We were surprised at how busy it was for a weekday morning until we discovered they were having a rice planting festival. We couldn't really follow what was happening but there were people dressed as cows, some wearing masks, and lots of Shinto priests chanting. It was a really neat event to stumble upon and even though it felt busy it was spacious enough to not feel crowded. I got my goshuin stamp and we wandered the grounds for a bit, the **Yama Shrine** was particularly beautiful. Feeling refreshed and lighter we decided to seek out tea and coffee. Google suggested Cafe Cocorotte so we struck out in that direction. Things were going smoothly...until they weren't. Suddenly we were on streets that did not exist on Google, we kept arriving at dead ends, and the area appeared to be a neighborhood? Even our attempts to escape were thwarted as these tiny, one-lane roads were mazelike and would often start one direction before taking a sharp turn the other way. After another dead end brought us to a large red building with \"TOY STORE\" in giant English letters on the outside I briefly wondered if we were being Spirited Away. Luckily the car GPS seemed to understand the area better so we put in a random gas station and had it direct us. There were still definitely roads that did not exist on their map either, but it was enough to get us out of there. Giving up on tea we headed to **Ryusuien** ( ), a soba noodle shop where the owner has their own hatchery for rainbow trout, carp, and I think salmon? It was actually right across the border in Miyazaki. The waitress was friendly and made conversation with us, I ordered soba while my husband got udon and we split a grilled fish. The noodles were tasty but less memorable than the fish. My husband was still craving tea and asked if they had any black tea, and despite it not being on the menu they found a tea bag for him. We ate quickly and drove to the airport. Kagoshima airport is small but we were worried about security so we skipped the hot spring footbaths, but I think it only took us maybe 10 minutes to get to the gate. We flew on JetStar, a budget airline that gets the job done and has decent legroom. The flight took about two hours and we landed in Narita. While waiting in line to get Skyliner tickets I saw GoogleMaps had a link to where you could purchase the tickets online. I bought it and was briefly confused how to get through the gates as the ticket had our seat number but no QR code or anything, a friendly gate attendant explained that if you buy the online ticket you use your IC card to scan and then show the ticket on your phone to an attendant if asked. After a few train changes, which went very smoothly, we arrived at our hotel **Kichijji Tky REI Hotel**. Very conveniently located right by the train station, the room was modern and functional if a bit small. We could not adjust the temperature of the room but the window opened which made it more tolerable. They had tea and coffee in the lobby on the 4th floor. I really loved Kichijoji the last time I was in Japan in 2018 and remember it being quiet and laid-back. The area felt very different this time, the new train station is large and the streets were brimming with people. Not a ton of western tourists but still very busy. For dinner we ventured to **Harmonica Yokocho**, an area full of narrow alleys that used to be an underground flea market but now has a ton of small bars and izakayas. We went to a few places, with **Harmonica Kitchen and Bar** being our favorite, but we didn't really vibe with the area generally. I think it may have suffered in comparison to how quiet and calm our last few days had been, if I could do it again I would have had us get dinner at a restaurant and then a nightcap in Harmonica Yokocho. STEP COUNT: 16,636"}
{"id": "0102", "text": "Just got back from a 7 day solo trip to Kansai region. Stayed in Daiwa Ronyet Hotel next to Kyoto station. For solo person it was great. Nice queen sized bed, nice bathroom and shower. All for under $85 a night. Arrived at KIX around 7pm. Immigration was fairly painless, though it took a couple tries to get the machine to read my passport. Then headed to the ticket office to get my ICOCA card and tickets for Haruka train to Kyoto. Definitely recommend just using the ticket office. The line was way shorter than the ticket machines and you can talk to a real person to make sure you get the right time / station, etc. Arrived at hotel at around 9pm and immediately went to sleep, having been awake for about 22 hours (I can't sleep on planes and it was a 12 hour flight from LAX) Day 1: Woke up at around 4:30am due to jet lag. Showered and went to the nearby 7/11. First thing that blew my mind was they have heated cans and bottles of coffee. I ended up getting addicted to the Boss coffee latte and had one each morning to wake myself up. Went back to hotel to figure out my itinerary, ended up walking and bussing partway to Gion district around 6:30am. Already a couple people around but not too crowded. Took pics of the famous pagoda and went to Kiyomizu-dera temple. Something I realized pretty quickly is that I overestimated the time temples would take. Going at a slow pace and taking in the sights, I walked through the temple grounds in about 25 min. After that I wandered around Gion more and walked up to Yasaka shrine around 7:30. Beautiful shrine with lanterns. By this time I was getting hungry and that is when I realized the issue with getting to 'touristy' spots early to beat the crowds.....nothing opens till like 10am. I kept hearing all this advice about getting to places early to beat the crowds, but they fail to mention that businesses often aren't open till 9am at the earliest, and often 10 or 11. I ended up going to the famous Starbucks simply because they opened at 8. After that I visited Kodai ji temple just north of Kiyomizu-dera. Very beautiful and underrated temple. By thus point shops were starting to open up so I grabbed some food and did some souvenir shopping, visited the Ghibli store. Wandered around more, grabbed lunch at an Udon place across the river and visited Maruyama park to get off my feet for a little bit. Side note, you will do A LOT of walking. I averaged over 30,000 steps a day. One of the few things that annoyed me in general while in Japan was just the lack of designated places to sit and the lack of seating with back rests. After walking all day my back was killing me and I was dying for some relief, not to be hunched over on a flat bench... After sitting at the park for a while to regain my strength, I walked northeast to Nanzen-ji temple gate and the Aquaduct, then further up to Philosopher's path. Ended up at a cafe called 'and bull coffee.' By this time it was about 3pm and I was exhausted and sweaty. This day was 91 degrees F with like 70% humidity. I was drenched. Not wanting to walk another step, I found the nearest bus stop and took the bus back to my hotel and my GOD was this bus crowded. I already had to stand when I got on, and at each stop more and more and more people just kept piling in, to where I thought surely there must be come capacity limit? Ended up getting off one stop early just out of sheer claustrophobia. Got back to my hotel to relax for a couple hours, then went and had dinner at a nearby Gyudon place around 5pm before returning and knocking out at around 7:30 (jet lag). Day 2: Woke up at around 4am again. Again went to a nearby convenience store, this time FamilyMart. PS their socks are as comfy as people say and only about $3 a pair, don't sleep on them. Also bought a poncho and umbrella since forecast called for rain...more on that in a sec. Took train to Fushimi Inari around 5:30 am and got to see the tori gates just as the sun was coming up. Beautiful seeing the hallway of gates slowly illuminated by the rising sun. Right as I was nearing the summit, it went from cloudy to absolutely pouring rain in the span of about 10 minutes. I have never seen rain this hard. I threw on my poncho and umbrella, but within minutes my shoes and socks were soaked. Water was running down the stone steps like a tiny river. At this point I decided to head back down and tip toed down every step back to the entrance for fear of slipping and being carried away by the water. Went to a Yamazaki convenince store next to Fushimi to get a hot coffee to warm myself up, by this point the rain had let up a bit. Took the train back to hotel since my socks and shirt were totally waterlogged. Changed shirts and tried to dry off my shoes using the air con machine. Went back out a couple hours later and took the subway line north to central Kyoto to do some shopping. Got to the Pokemon Center store just before it opened and queued up to go inside. I don't know why but this store made me really emotional for some reason. Something about the nostalgia, hearing the Pokemon center music and seeing all the little kids just losing their minds brought me back to being 8 years old. After that I visited Nintendo Kyoto store (which is on the 7th floor of a shopping mall). Passed Teramachi shopping St and visited some shops there, including a cool custom knife shop with a very helpful English speaking assistant. I for some reason thought Nishiki Market was closed because when searching google, it said it was closed for the autumn holiday observed on Monday but Google is a bunch of liars. Happily I stumbled into it (its next to Teramachi) and boy was it crowded. It was around noon, so it's understandable but it was shoulder to shoulder packed. Didn't stop my from enjoying a ton of the food though. I'm a siple guy, you put meat on a stick, I'll eat it. After lunch I checked out Tower Records, then took the subway back to my hotel. I initially planned to visit Pontocho alley for dinner, but was tired by this point so I stumbled on a basement food court underneath Kyoto Tower. Tons of little restaurants. Had Yakisoba for dinner. Day 3: Woke up at 5am. Convenience store. Boss Coffee and a fruit sandwich (also the best combini sandwich in my opinion). Took the train to Arashiyama bamboo forest. Walked the park and river front. Had breakfast at this little shop called Bread, Espresso and Arashiyma. Got there 5 min after they opened and still it was a 40 minute wait to get inside. Really good food though. After that I wandered around more and visited the 'kimono forest' at the nearby station. Headed back to Hotel at around 11am. Then headed back to central Kyoto to Gyoen national garden and walked north to Nashinoki Shrine. I happened to be in Kyoto during the Hagi Matsuri (Bush Clover Festival) and I read they were holding events at this Shrine. I was so happy I got to experience this. I came right before they held a demonstration of Iaido, a sword technique with katanas that emphasizes quick draws and strikes against opponents. Was probably one of the biggest highlights of my trip. Just outside they had a small market with people selling antiques and japanese pottery as well. After a long walk back from the shrine down to Muratamachi subway station, I headed back to the hotel again before dinner. Since I missed Pontocho the day before, I took a bus up to Pontocho area by Kamo River. In another bus snafu, the bus I was meant to take ended up being about 10 minutes late, to where even Japanese people at the busstop looked confused and were checking their watches. Google once again led me astray, and despite getting on the correct numbered bus, it did not stop at pontocho and instead took me across the Shijoo bridge to the other side of the river. Annoyed, I quickly got off at the next stop, but ended up having to walk back over the bridge. Not a huge deal, just google once again giving me wrong information. Wandered around Pontocho and had dinner at this little Curry place tucked into a small alley. It was so small it barely had a sign. More like a placard. Great curry though. After that went to Blue bottle for a late night coffee and on a whim, since I was annoyed by the bus system, decided maybe I could walk the 1.5 mi back to my hotel. Passed by some bars so decided to have couple drinks (I'm not a big drinker). Wetn to a bar called Aquamarine that looked very fancy. Bartender was dressed sharp, and I got their signature drink which was a sake and blue liquor mixture that made it...aquamarine colored. Then went into another bar nearby for a lemon sour and asahi beer. Tipsy by this point a slowly marched my way back to my hotel. However, the alcohol had somehow relieved me of my exhaustion, so I wandered around the Yodobashi camera store next door. My god this store had everything. As a tech enthusiast it made Best Buy or Mircocenter look tiny in comparison. 4 floors of electronics and hobby stuff and a 5th floor of clothes, including an Uniqlo. If I had a bigger suitcase I would have bought so much at this store. Day 4: Woke up around 5:40 to a loud gong like sound. Confused as to what it was, I showered quickly and went outside. To my surprise, I realized there is a gigantic temple half a block behind my hotel, and the sound was from the monks ringing a large bell to signify the temple opening at 6am. I think the temple is called Higashi Hongan-ji but it was massive. Huge courthard and half a dozen large buildings made up this complex. Was crazy to realize that I completely didn't notice this place, having been out before sunrise previous days, so the temple was obscured in darkness. Headed to Osaka to Umeda station around 9 am. Let me tell you, Umeda station is as gigantic and confusing as people say. It SUCKED trying to use google to figure out how to get around both the station itself and the adjacent streets with their weird pedestrain bridges, crossings, and multi level walkways. I was looking for Osaka pokemon center since it opened at 10am, and I must have spent 30 minutes wandering around, looking for directories or any indicator of where it was. Finally I googled 'where is Osaka Pokemon Center' into google as opposed to using Google Maps, and in the first time AI has ever been helpful, Google told me it was on the 13th floor of the mall above the station. What it didn't say was that the floor isn't accessible until 10am. So at 9:55 I get in the elevator, press 13, the elevator says something in Japanese and doesn't move. I go to the 3rd floor, and see another white guy looking confused. I asked him if he was looking for Pokemon or Nintendo store. Yes. He then wondered 'well maybe the floor doesn't open till 10?' So for any future travellers, if you want to go to Osaka Nintendo or Pokemon Center, they are on the 13th floor, but you can't go up until 10am... After shopping, I took the loop line to Osaka Castle. Found a place that had Poke for lunch (that was way cheaper and more substantial than any Poke I've had in CA). Walked from Osaka Castle to SOT coffee (that was my first mistake, by this point it was hot and I ended up using my umbrella for shade). Took subway down to Dotonburi area. Saw Glico running man sign, stumbled into Gigo? Arcade which wasa recipe for overstimulation. For dinner I wanted to try Okinomiyaki, a staple in Osaka. I stumbled onto a small place without a wait in the middle of the touristy area(should have been my first clue). I was pointed upstairs only to realize it was a 'cook it yourself' style place. You order your type, they give you a bowl with the ingredients and you have to mix it and cook it yourself. Being awkward, I didn't want to just leave, so decided to just try it. I cook at home fairly often and it seemed pretty straightforward. I ordered the basic one but it ended up being delicious. There were two younger japanese girls next to me who had unfortunately butchered their okinomiyaki into a pile of cabbage and goo. They were proceeding to eat it piece by piece off the flat grill surface. Having flipped mine and have it keep its shape, and be lightly browned, they looked over at me and did the 'high school Japanese girl clap' (Yes, this was a literal 'and then everyone clapped' travel story and I hate that lol). Full of food, I wandered Dotonburi a little bit more, then headed back to Kyoto hotel. Day 5: Getting tired of typing so am going to try and shorten these more. Took train back to Osaka, this time Namba station to visit Den Den town. Spent the afternoon wandering around anime and videogame heaven, visiting Super Potato (horribly overpriced my god, $150 for a regular gameboy color is robbery) Found a nearby Suragaya with much better prices. After, visited an arcade (the long shopping street kind, not the videogame kind) that was nothing but cookware, knives, and dishware. After I walked down to Shinsekai, played the original Super Mario Bros on an arcade machine (I died after the second level), and had dinner at Rokusen sushi and had some of the best sushi of my life, paired with a hot sake. Like 10 pieces plus sake ended up being under$20 US! In a hilarious twist that perfectly described how absurdist Japan can be, right around the corner from a fairly refined sushi bar was a merch store dedicated entirely to Pringles chips. I'm talking t shirts, keychains, hats, socks, etc. Ended the night with some Takoyaki (dough balls were good, just not a fan of the texture of octopus). Day 6: Took the Shinkansen to Kobe. Then immediately went up to Arima Onsen. At the first subway station, I 'sumimasen'ed a Japanese guy, just to confirm this train went towards arima. Rather than simply saying yes, he was so kinda and not only used google translate to basically give me step by step instructions of the train transfers, but rode with me on 2 of the three, then told me which platform to go to for the last one. We ended up using google translate to chat for a little bit. He informed me that Arima is one of the oldest onsen towns in Japan. Once at Arima I visited Gin No Yu, used the nearby footbath and then mustered the courage to use the public onsen. I figured when else am I going to have a chance to do this. It was amazing and so relaxing. You completely bathe and wash yourself beforehand, so it's not as 'germy' as one might think. There was only 2 other older Japanese guys in the bath when I got in. I kind of treated it like the gym, where once you realize no is actually paying attention to you, you can feel more comfortable. Was so refreshing and did wonders for my aching feet and back. After the onsen I walked around for a bit, then headed back down to Kobe to the Herb Garden. Took the cable car up the mountain which was a little scary for someone with a fear of heights, but the views of the city and mountainside where amazing. The herb garden was cool, and had a bit of a European vibe, but I kind of rushed my way through after a while just to get back down to the bottom since it started to feel a little repetitive. Walked down towards Kobe station and had Kobe beef dinner at Kobe Mouriya. I didn't have a reservation, but itwas like 1:50 and they just asked 'can you come back at 2:15?' Sure thing. Wandered around the area and had a coffee before coming back. Got the rump cut of kobe beef that is a little less fatty and it was a solid 9/10. The meat, veggies, soup and salad with a glass of Japanese Whisky for about $60 was hard to beat. Was so sleepy from the beef I headed back to Kyoto around 3pm and had dinner back at the food court under Kyoto tower...and by dinner I mean Souffle pancakes from Pancake Room. #treatyoself. Day 7: Woke up slightly less early at 6am. Headed to Nara, got confused about the train I was supposed to get on, so ended up getting there around 8am. So about the deer. I get the deer are cute and instagramable, and you feed them the crackers, but after about 20 min or so of seeing deer, the wonder kind of wore off and I wanted to not see a ton of deer any more. Plus the feint 'petting zoo' smell kind of wore out its welcome pretty fast. Todai-ji temple, however, was breathtaking, massive, and I just stayed around there for like 45 minutes. I happened to be there at the same times a field trip full of kids so it was super cute seeing them in their little uniforms and yellow hats. I kind of fell in with their group as they wandered around Nara park and to some of the other temples in the area. So that made up for the metric fuckton of deer and deer poop that was everywhere. Also this one large male deer bullied me out of all my crackers so he can suck it. Made my way over to Kofuku-ji temple. Don't sleep on this one even though Todai-ji is the one everyone goes to. The inside is breathtaking and Wandered back towards the train station and snacked at various shops along the way, having mochi, strawberries, and melonpan as my breakfast. Mochi was good but be sure to have a drink with you, swallowing it rawdog is a recipe for choking yourself lol. Took train from Nara to Uji around noon. Of the two I definitely liked Uji better. The famous bridge from Tale of Genji, Byodo-in, and the various little matcha shops were all so cool and had such a historic vibe to them. Byodo-in may have been my favorite landmark of the whole trip. Something about it and the surrounding grounds was just so beautiful to me for some reason. Plus the museum you tour through at the end gave it extra context which was very cool. Had the obligatory matcha tea latte from Masuda. Best matcha latte of my life and somehow still cheaper than starbucks. Ironically there is one right next to it which seemed hilarious to me. Headed back to Kyoto station and stumbled on a performer outside the station. I think he was maybe part of a j-pop band but he was performing solo with an acoustic guitar. No idea who he was bout he sounded really good. Found an Animate store at the top floor of a mall behind Kyoto station (as well as a Don Quixote that I got absolutely lost in, like literally I could not find my way back to the escalator for 15 minutes). Ended the night with a bowl of oyokodon and a kiwi sake highball. Day 8: Final day in Kyoto before flying out. Finally on the last day I had adjusted to the time only to have to fly back that evening haha. Woke up at 7:30 and wandered around the neightborhood next to my hotel one last time, admiring the tiny houses, tiny cars and narrow backstreets of Kyoto. A refreshing contrast to the sprawl and oversized...everything...in America. Checked out of hotel, stored my luggage at Kyoto station, and walked over to Umekoji park, Since it was a Saturday they had a market and food trucks set up so had a quick lunch then walked over to Kyoto Aquarium. Lots of cool exhibits. Sadly the aquarium does have a dolphin show, hardly a scientific endeavor, more of a circus. It wasn't performing while I was there, but was just a little bit of a bummer to see. While walking back towards kyoto station I wanted to grab one last lunch, so I found a curry place called Yoshizou curry. For 550 yen I got a big ass plate of curry and pork katsu and funny enough was better than the more expensive curry I had in Pontocho. Sometimes it goes to show Headed back to Kyoto station one last time to take the Haruka back to KIX. Getting to Departures was a bit more confusing than getting out of KIX once arriving Complaints: Not really too many complaints. As previously mentioned, outdoor public seating is limited and very few have back rests so be prepared for that. One of my bigger general annoyances was with Chinese tourists. I am willing to bet 90% of non-japanese that I encountered in Kansai were Chinese. They really revealed the contrast in cultures between China and Japan. Where most Japanese people I interacted with were kind, amenable, and considerate, the Chinese tourists were loud, oblivious to everyone else around them, and stubborn, doing nothing to adhere to Japanese etiquette or customs. The number of times I would be walking in a throng of people, only to have like 15 Chinese tourists suddenly randomly stop and look around and starting taking pictures in the middle of the walking path, forcing everyone to go around them was enough to drive me insane. Also, Japanese toilet paper is terribly thin, but their bidets...my god...the bidets were amazing. I have become a convert, an evangelist of the bidet. We Americans know nothing of booty cleanliness. We have much to learn. Overall the trip was amazing, and going solo I was able to do about 80-85% of what I had laid out in my itinerary, even despite the constant walking and being dead tired by dinner time. The train system in Japan is amazing, but google maps did occasionally confuse me or not tell me which platform the transferring train was on, leading to me running around looking for the station signs. Also I used Airalo for mobile data, and for the most part it was OK but would occasionally totally loose internet for like 30 sec to a minute, and when you are using google maps to navigate, that can be very frustrating."}
{"id": "0103", "text": "I loved reading through reports here so I will submit my own for a solo trip, my very first international solo trip! A lot went wrong, but I will talk about what I did and what had to be skipped. * Dates: January 25 - February 4 * Me: 20M, student, half Asian * Weather: Cool and clear almost every day. Hail one day. Snow one day. * Clothes: T-shirt and sweatpants. Hoodie for outside, taken off getting onto the trains because holy fuck was I dying in the trains wearing layers. How do the commuters do it??? * Travel: Exclusively public transport using Suica + a 7 Day JR Rail Pass for Jan 27 - Feb 2 (minor mistake for 2 pieces of luggage) **Day 1 (Thursday the 25th)** I landed in HND at 2:50PM and sped through customs faster than I ever thought possible. I picked up my JR Rail Pass + reserved Shinkansen tickets, NinjaWifi pocket WiFi, and I had to buy a jasmine tea from a vending machine. I went to my lodging to drop off my luggage before venturing on a whim to look at Tokyo Tower (and peep the Oshi no Ko collab displays). LODGING: Ryokan Nakadaya - 9/10. Insane value for price ($33/night)! My room was cozy, but got upgraded to a double for free. Owner was super kind and we talked for an hour about places he recommended. Only downside is the long and stair-filled walk from Minami-Senju Station. Stayed here for my whole trip so I could keep my checked bags and souvenirs somewhere. Soba at Fuji Soba - 8/10. I got a set meal which had so much food for only 900 yen! **Day 2** Ripe off the effects of jet lag, I take to the fish markets after unintentionally waking up at 4:30AM! Tsukiji clears Toyousu heavy handidly, because I bought nothing and spent little to no time in Toyousu. Onigiri Marutoyo in Tsukiji Outer Market - 10/10. The shrimp tempura was warm and had a great crunch! I got there a little before 6AM, and then the line was at least 8 people long to the stand. The clam and eel onigiri(s) are also worth getting! Teamlab Planets - 10/10! A great museum where you also FEEL the art. Make sure to reserve beforehand! Pork Cutlet Set Lunch at the Staff Cafeteria inside Tokyo Metropolitan Government Building - 10/10. While I had to ask an office worker where the cafeteria was, the value and view make this spot worth it! With the clear weather, Mt Fuji could be seen peeking over the closer mountains. Did I mention that the observation floor is FREE? Then I got lost looking for the Godzilla Store before heading to Shibuya where I looked around Tower Records, Shibuya Crossing, and Shibuya Square. SAKE MARKET (Shinjuku) 9/10. A great reservable place to taste a bunch of different sake, sochu, and more. You can bring your own snacks as well. NOT an izakaya. **Day 3 TOKYO &gt; HAKONE** I started my day by walking across Sakura Bridge to Tokyo Skytree! It was nice to get my steps in on another sunny day. Brunch at Tokyo Skytree - 9/10. I got takoyaki from Gindaco because they were doing a collab with Oshi no Ko (my #1 or 2 fav anime) and North Plain Farm Hokkaido Milk Ice Cream as a brunch! I spent the rest of the main day buying Oshi no Ko merch and other items in Tokyo Solemachi with a couple vending machine drinks and cold matcha from Gion Tsujiri. I went into Ikebukuro and immediately had a rough time. Once you exit the station, the mall complex you find yourself in has HORRIBLE signage and I felt genuinely overwhelmed for the first time this trip. I looking in a Ministop, Pokemon Center, and Comic Books Toranora before hopping on a shinkansen and bus to my one night stay in LODGING: Fukuzumiro - 10/10. Approximately $200 got me my own room with a river view, seasonal kaiseki, yukatas in the rooms, and reservable onsen rooms. The fugu themed meals were great! BUT There is a butt. By sheer incompetence or my anxiety, I went into a mini mental breakdown as I scrabled to figure out and then look up how to wear a yukata. I was very worried about etiquette. The meal helped stabilize me, and the onsen was especially calming - to be able to bathe alone. **Day 4 HAKONE &gt; TOKYO** After breakfast and a morning onsen, I take the bus further into the mountains so I could go on a short hike to Chisuji Falls - 8/10. Its a small falls, but a short &lt;15 minute hike from the nearest bus stop. It was a cozy stop! Sidequest: Needed to stop and walk 15 minutes to a 7-Eleven because I forgot to top off my Suica for the bus fare. Hakone Shrine - 5/10. Was nice to see from a distance since the main tori gate was closed off until it started hailing (small hail). This was one of the bad weather days, since I had no view of Mt Fuji. Took buses and shinkansen back to Tokyo. Starbucks Reserve Roastery: Did not get anything. Supper: Uobei Shibuya Conveyor Belt Sushi (8/10) Then I looked in Animate, Mandrake, MEGA Don Quixote, Hands, &amp; Nintendo Tokyo. **Day 4 TOKYO &gt; OSAKA &gt; NARA &gt; KYOTO** *I can already see the comments saying that today was a huge mistake. You are right! DO NOT try to fit the Osaka-Nara-Kyoto set into one day, because the aftereffects can be felt for the next few days.* By taking the shinkansen from Tokyo &gt; Shin-Osaka, I was able to see Mt. Fuji! Osaka Aquarium * 10/10. The smartest thing I did here besides reserving my ticket in advance was to put my backpack into a storage locker at the closest train station. Loved the whale sharks! Lunch * 8/10. 7-Eleven curry bread and Onigiri * 9/10. Nakatanidou Mochi. So chewy and fresh, plus I got to see the mochi pounding; lucky! Nara Park * 9/10. The deer were chill and I had a great time eating lunch and feeding the deer! At this point I felt horrible and broken down so I skipped Fushimi Inari Shrine and all of my other Kyoto plans to head straight to my capsule hotel for the night. I went to bed at 8pm ;w; LODGING: Anshin Oyado Premier Kyoto * 7/10. I stayed here for free since I had OneKeyCash from a prior vacation. The amenities were really nice, but I got bad sleep unfortunately. Noise was nice and low. **Day 5 KYOTO &gt; AOMORI &gt; HAKODATE** You mightve thought that the JR Rail Pass was a bad cost move, but this huge leg of three shinkansen trains make it worth it combined with tomorrows train rides! Shinkansen(s) to Aomori, clear Mt Fuji again! Breakfast: Vending machine ice cream and Koikeya Shrimp Chips Miso Milk Curry Ramen at Ramen Ajino-Sapporo - 10/10! Waiting in line for 10-15 minutes takes you into a small restaurant where the whole menu is in Japanese. A must visit! Bought souvenirs in A-Factory plus Apple gelato &amp; cider. LODGING: Share Hakodate (8/10) Supper: Sweet 26 Cider &amp; Persimmon-leaf-wrapped mackerel sushi (8/10) **Day 6** Finally, a proper winter! Breakfast at Hakodate Morning Market! - 10/10! I had fresh Squid Sashimi, Kyushu Melon, Pearl White Strawberries, &amp; Fresh Boiled Hairy Crab! The hairy crab took 45 minutes of waiting but it was worth it and I feasted like a king! Lunch: Strawberries and Beef Chip-Sticks Dai-Ichi Takimotokan Onsen at Noboribetsu - 10/10. The outdoor onsen baths were the coziest because I could balance the hot water with the cold winter air as it lightly snowed. It was honestly perfect! Supper @ Nemuro Hanamaru Standing Sushi in Sapporo - 10/10! Got a standing space for a shorter wait time and it was of better quality than in Tokyo! Bought some more souvenirs in Sapporo Stellar Place before taking a Train to CTS, plane to HND, and transit to Ryokan. The Sapporo Snow Festival was unfortunately delayed, so I just barely missed it. Slept @ 1am. **Day 7** Today is all about Harajuku and Akihabara! Brunch: Yuzu Ramen Set with Whiskey Yuzu Highball @ Afuri Harajuku - 10/10! While the ramen is pricey, the flavor makes it worth it! Unique vibe going on since they played Dua Lipas Houdini while I was there lol. NO CASH. Then I bought streetwear at Takeshita-dori before taking transit to Nakano Broadway and Akihabara. Owl Cafe Akiba: It was very chill and calming plus it was nice to have an owl there that loved to sit on my head! Snack: 1500 Kobe Beef Skewer at Beef Skewers Maruju Meat Shop (10/10) I then bought lots of figurines before doing laundry at my ryokan. **Day 8** Senso-ji - 8/10. I went on a weekend which was not the best idea to avoid crowds, but I could tolerate it and managed to get the best fortune! My wish is a secret though teehee. Bought cups &amp; fake food at Nakamise-dori. Lunch: Giraffe Curry Bread (10/10 value) Dessert: Suzukien strawberry &amp; level 7 matcha gelato (10/10) Snack: Naruto Taiyaki (8/10) Walk to KitKat Popup Shop, Bus to Ryokan, Transit to Japan Sake &amp; Sochu Info Center, and Shibuya. After many days I FINALLY saw the Hachiko Statue! 109 Vending Machine Cake in a Can?! Its in the basement of the 109 btw Looking down on Shibuya Crossing from 109 Magnet, a good place since you pay AND get a free drink. Supper: Karukaya Tsuke-Udon (9/10). I went about an hour before they closed and there was nobody else there! Waited 40 minutes in line at Onigiri Bongo, andI bought 5 Onigiri. Late Night Snack: Sujiko &amp; Egg Yolk Onigiri from above (11/10) **Day 9** Breakfast: Onigiri Bongo Transit to Suga Shrine Otokodan (Your Name location), Meiji Jingu, &amp; Akihabara. Bought more Oshi no Ko merch &amp; things Lunch: Baked Goods Transit to Godzilla Statue in Ginza. Bought lots of stationary at Itoya Transit to Tsutaya Books, and bought a circuit board Tokyo rail map card holder (now unavailable)! Transit to Shinjuku for Sake Market, then Ryokan **Day 10 - Last Day** Breakfast: same as yesterday. Checked out of Ryokan Nakadaya. HND bag drop. Lunch: Tsukiji Standing Sushi Bar (8/10) Great value, but I felt I received meh service. Then back to HND for my flight back home!"}
{"id": "0104", "text": "Hopefully this is enough detail and context and specific enough to stay up :) apologies for any sp TIA for reading at length. Background: I am trying to finalize building out my Japan trip as we are 3 weeks out from the start of my trip which begins with 2 weeks in Vietnam, 2ish weeks in Thailand, and 2 weeks in Korea. I add this as context that we will have visited 13 different cities across 3 countries encompassing different aspects of multiple temple visits, nature stays, and home/temple stays (in this case specifically Sapa/hanok in Gyeongju. We will be \"somewhat\" prepared for the shock of Tokyo crowds after Seoul and Bangkok, and smaller degree Hanoi. We are generally fast travel types with maximist schedules, but since we are travelling for such an extended period this time we are trying to adapt a more slow travel schedule with days of just cafes and wandering aimlessly as to not burn out. Main question: Should I add any day trips or 1-2 night stays within the Tokyo block of my visit that would be high-value nature and Japanese countryside/off the main tourist path that would be worth the time needed to travel to while taking days away from 1 week in Tokyo? I have mostly been considering Hakone/Lake Kawaguchi/Nikkone but maybe also somewhere in Chubu (Kanazawa/Shirakawa/Takayama) but feel that this itch will be scratched by temple stay in Koyasan - reasons against Nikkone (templed out by the end of the trip) reasons against Hakone/Lake Kawaguchi (already completing ryokan experience/Mt Fuji is not promised to see without clouds/seems like checking a box for a photo as much as I know I would love to see it in person, particularly Chureita Pagoda) -reasons against Chubu (more difficult to travel to, would probably need 2 days to make worth the distance?) -extra info: work in the food sci industry so I love agrotourism and any food processing or culinary tours Current Itinerary: Dates May 22- June 11-14 (flexible as we haven't booked our flight back yet) Leaving loose with less detail as we have more time to allow for casual/flex schedule and to keep simple to my questions above. Currently averaging 70-95$/night pp with exceptions for special stays - ryokan/temple/etc) **Day 1- Arrival (Hiroshima station)** Fly into Osaka/KIX, travel to Hiroshima - arrive at hotel \\~9 pm. Long travel day, easy dinner and sleep **Day 2-3 Hiroshima (Hiroshima station)** Peace Park, Bomb dome, Castle, Hondori Miyojima Island **Day 4-5 (Amira Onsen)** Travel to Amira, check out town, check into ryokan, Kaseiki dinner Enjoy onsens, Travel to Osaka **Day 6-9 (Osaka, Namba area)** Free day Half day trip to Himeji Castle, Dontonburi nightlife Osaka Castle, market, arcade Half day trip to Nara, upon checkout and enroute to Kyoto - focus on temples/mochi over deer park \\***\\*Day 10-14 (Kyoto, Gion/Higashima Shirakawa-\\*\\*still finalizing hotel in this area)** early weekday- Fushimi Inari, explore back trails for quieter bamboo forest experience in favor of Arashiyama Nikishi market, Ghibli store Free day to just wander aimlessly in the old quarters (forgetting names of specific streets but you know the ones) and lesser known temples/shrines Kiyomizudera temple - walking distance from hotel so easy to fit in a few hours Kinakuji temple **Day 15-16 (Seijoshin-in, Kayosan shukobo)** Travel to Mt Koya, explore town, check-in, shojin ryori dinner, night tour of Okunoin morning prayer and goma prayer, onward to Tokyo {**Here's where I am needing most suggestions}** **Day 17-24 (Tokyo, Shinjuku)** Musts for Tokyo include (and please be gentle as this is what I am still planning so don't have the day by day flow outlined yet as to what makes most sense next to each other geographically) Shibuya crossing/Shibuya sky sunset Golden Gai/Memory Lane Harajuku shopping couple hours Asashi beer tower, Ninja Food tour Akihabara - wander around Meiji-jingu Shrine Tsukiji market Senso-ji NO INTEREST IN TEAMlabs, cat cafes, maid cafes etc Want a lot of time to just soak in Tokyo and eat as much as we can. Also considering breaking the \\~7 nights into 2 different districts. Shinjuku and Shibuya of most interest. Honestly just typing this out exhausted me and maybe I have my answer. After planing for 6 weeks straight I am even fatigued of just planning. But I feel a lot of stress to nail down the trip since we are fortunate to have the amount of time that we do. If you have any experiences or tours that are highly worthy I am also open to those suggestions for any of the above places. Also forgot to add- have not yet done the math on JR Pass and local passes but assuming we will just buy individual routes as we go with exception for perhaps a Kansai/Hiroshima pass. Any feedback welcome here as well. Promise to write a trip review in the end :)"}
{"id": "0105", "text": "Im mainly a lurker on here but Ive used a lot of these threads in helping to plan my own trip with my friend and heres the trip summary and some tips for booking experiences and reservations in the hopes that it helps someone! I love to plan and organize so this was a playground for me and weve had it in the works for a long while, though the actual reserving and buying tickets to prepare started 5-6 months prior to the trip dates. This post got way longer than I originally planned so I broke it up into itinerary and general digest of the trip and then a separate post for booking tips for things that helped me :). We just got back last month and it was an amazing trip, but definitely got all the miserable weather between late rainy season on top of the heat and humidity in Osaka/Nara/Kyoto and then more of the same in Tokyo yet somehow a more oppressive, apparently record-breaking heatwave..yaaay. It had us flat out exhausted halfway through the day and in a constant state of sweating. Not pretty but we powered through! It just meant that the time we had to relax and just walk the city was taken up by returning to the hotel and going unconscious in the air conditioning. We got the majority of what we wanted to do, but Ill list things I had as potentials on our schedule that we couldnt make it to. We did a lot because I wanted to try to see as much as possible this trip and make it so I didnt need to go back in another trip. **TL;DR** Two female travelers \\~30, one non-JP and one JP both living in America. Trip was \\~15 days in Osaka, Nara, Kyoto, Tokyo. I planned and booked everything myself / with friends Japanese fam help a tiny bit. Itinerary and finance breakdown at the end. Japan summer heat and humidity is no joke use the UV umbrellas, stay hydrated, get a fan if you want but a hand fan works too. Give yourself time to explore and relax and flexibility on catching trains if youre a first time traveler to Japan. **The final itinerary ** * **\"Day\" 0 (Tues Japan time)** fly in late at night, get to hotel from KIX and grab a bite to eat. * **Day 1 (Wed)** Namba Yasaka Shrine early morning (was practically empty!), headed to Osaka Castle, then to Osaka Aquarium and the nearby, then back towards Dotonbori for a stop at Animate and Nipponbashi Denden area. \\[Didnt make it to Rikuro's Cheesecakes, Tempozan giant ferris wheel was unexpectedly closed, Hozenji Yokocho Shrine in evening\\] * **Day 2 (Thurs)** Universal Studios Japan all day, then afternoon in Dotonbori (exhausted) * **Day 3 (Fri)** Nara day trip: Heavily rained out but Kasuga Taisha, Todai-ji area, Nara Park outskirts (the main park area was slammed with tourists, we avoided like the plague), and the popular Nara streets which were surprisingly not busy at all. **For the love of all thats holy, please do not go to Nara if youre scared of deer or animals in general. (more below)** \\[Didnt make it to Hase-dera for their beautiful hydrangea display sadly\\]. * **Day 4 (Sat)** Aoniyoshi sightseeing limited express train from Osaka to Kyoto to check into the next hotel, Renka-no-Yu. Short walk to Kyoto Aquarium (would not recommend) and then a train towards reservation at the Macho Bar (12/10 loved it). \\[Didnt make it to Imperial Palace due to delays and then it was closing too soon, same with Kyoto Botanical Gardens\\] * **Day 5 (Sun)** Not ideal for a Sunday but it's just where it fell, Arashiyama day: bamboo forest (main one was packed, we went to the northern one and it was peaceful), Monkey Park (brutal hike in this weather), Tenryu-ji and gardens, Adashino Nenbutsu-ji, lots of river walking \\[Didnt make it to: Otagi Nenbutsu-ji due to time, Hozugawa River Boat Cruise closed due to river flooding, wandering Gion district as it was too hot\\] * **Day 6 (Mon)** Early wakeup for Fushimi Inari to beat the heat and crowds (not busy and totally worth it) and then Kiyomizu-dera (around 3pm it was slammed, not great) \\[Didnt make it to see any Gion Matsuri events, though it had since started preparations for the month) * **Day 7 (Tues)** Kinkaku-ji in the morning, then Kyoto to Tokyo shinkansen (only time the whole trip we saw Fuji for 5 minutes) with first stop at hotel check-in and then Skytree (was on another day but hotel had tickets and we had no plans for evening). * **Day 8 (Wed)** Meiji Jingu in the morning, head back towards Sawamura Cafe and Pokemon Cafe for mid-day reservation and wander the Akihabara area in afternoon. \\[Didnt make it to Takeshita Street\\] * **Day 9 (Thurs)** Heat wave really got to us this day but thankfully inside mostly. Nerima for Harry Potter Warner Brothers Studio Tour all day via Ikebukuro Station, back to Tokyo station and found a place called with great tsukemen after a long day. * **Day 10 (Fri)** First day with an official heat stroke alert and was kind of all over the place. Starbucks Reserve, then to Japan National Stadium Tour, Tokyo Metropolitan Gym (quick pics) with the Meiji Jingu Gaien area nearby, then to Shibuya area and Shibuya Sky reservation at sunset time 5:30pm with couch at 6-7 (underwhelmed, more on this later) \\[Didnt make it to Olympic Museum for pics outside but nbd\\] * **Day 11 (Sat)** TeamLabs Borderless reserved for morning entry and Tokyo Tower area in the morning, then got stuck in the Ikebukuro Animate (lol, could be worse) because of pouring rain out of nowhere \\[Didnt make it to Sunshine City but Animate was great\\]. * **Day 12 (Sun)** Bit of a free day spent in Shibuya for some shopping and wandering! * **Day 13 (Mon)** Senso-ji and Hikan Inari-jinja (street vendors were sadly closed both in the morning and afternoon when we tried, even though the hours said it should be open), Tokyo Station wandering in the morning, then evening in Shibuya again. * **Day 14 (Tues)** Generally a free day. Ended up finding the exclusive Starbucks near the Imperial Palace with their Wasanmitsu Almond Milk Frapp and it was outstanding (need to figure out how to make it at home!!) and took a shortened tour of the Imperial Palace grounds due to the heat wave, headed to Haneda hotel. * **\"Day\" 15 (Wed)** Flight out of Haneda around 10am **Finances** Neither of us wanted to break the bank with this trip but we also didnt want to skimp out on things we would enjoy if financially able. That being said, I definitely spent more than I expected to ; \\_ ; . The yen fluctuated between 140 yen to 1 USD all the way up to 160 yen while we were there. Breakdown in USD for everything we reserved in advance came out to: * **Flights** $1600 for me, $1800 for friend with her extra flight home * **Hotels** \\~$1100 per person for all hotels for the 15 nights, so \\~$75 on average per person per night without using hostels, share houses, or capsule hotels. Per night per person came out to $55 for Osaka, $83 for Tokyo, $99 for Kyoto (included breakfast buffet, onsen use, laundry, lots of amenities), and $37 for the Tokyo airport hotel on the last day. * **Experiences and Reservations in advance** $360 including USJ ticket and express pass, WB Studio Tour ticket, TeamLabs Borderless, Shibuya Sky ticket with couch, AONIYOSHI train ticket, Shinkansen ticket, all of which were booked before we set foot in Japan when the rate was around 150-160 yen per dollar. So $3060 and pretty much anything we had to pay to access, flights, shinkansen, and hotels were paid for. The only thing left is shrine entrance fees or attraction tickets day-of, train/bus transportation, food, and souvenirs which fluctuates a lot for individuals. I know I have a lot of stuff I wanted to bring home, and as a foodie I was looking forward to all the food on the trip. I spent \\~$88 total on transportation (not including the $100 shinkansen ticket required accounted for earlier) with heavy usage of the trains and buses, \\~$485 on food (including any vending machine or conbini stops), \\~$36 on misc needs at the conbini, and \\~$518 on merch or gifts for myself and friends/family. Roughly, this came out to a trip around $3700 not including gifts for family, or about $4300 including, total for two-ish weeks doing a LOT of things for a first-timer. This trip is heavily focused on the Big Three cities because its my first time there (not for my friend though) and I want to see it all once and then leave the wanderlust for my next trip because I know Im already going back for a dedicated Hokkaido road trip and another for some smaller prefectures. I have quite possibly seen every Instagram reel at this point about best this, best that, you HAVE to go here!! and its safe to say I tried my best to get to see the ones that are actually interesting, but otherwise avoided all the line-con type places. I do not want to wait in long lines or wake up extremely early just to queue for a restaurant. I loved waking up early but it was tough with things not opening, so it turned into time to wander around which was good too. We planned to wake up early to beat the heat (and hopefully crowds) on our shrine or temple hike days (that sun was unavoidable though), and we found that this left us with tons of time in the evening to do whatever we want if we had the energy. Theres a reason those places are famous and viral but Japan has lots to offer elsewhere too! Dont be afraid to just wander and look for something that catches your eye, we found great food by going to the places that werent very busy. Japanese people award great restaurants 3 stars and thats pretty dang good, so dont be turned away by an average 3-4 star rating. **Re: the Nara day trip:** It made me so frustrated to see tourists HITTING deer when they were trying to get the senbei from people. Theyre not all aggressive, you just have food and youre teasing an animal. We didnt end up getting the senbei and instead opted to go around and boop as many deer noses as we could as long as they were willing. Some were visibly agitated and we left them alone. Many people didnt do the same so yes, they were biting people. If your only goal for coming to Nara is to see deer and not care about their well-being, please make another decision. Also, if you're going to a different country, at least *try* to respect their culture / rules. Don't be excessively loud on trains when it's very obvious that nobody is talking. Take your garbage with you. Dont let your kids roam free and run around with no supervision because seriously, there were SO many unattended children crawling all over the shrines including places they should not have been stepping on, like roped off zen gardens. I get it, youre on vacation and you want to do you. At least try. All in all, the trip was amazing. I truly have never felt this way about any of the other countries Ive visited and I wish I had this kind of protected nature near me (or at least people who even mildly respect their community space). I look forward to heading back some time! I'm going to try and get the other post up soon too with the booking tips and takeaways from each place."}
{"id": "0106", "text": "Just got back from an 18-day trip to Japan with my partner, his first time, and my second time. I have linked my spreadsheet below which has 2 tabs: the updated TRIP REPORT tab which denotes what we actually did, and my WORKING ITINERARY which was the pre-trip planned schedule. I've also left the prices of things we paid for as I think it'll be helpful for people to know what they're expecting to spend. https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1wcZkUSdpkvAQ9hq0Je-vfEROsVkPMWFi3kozT7dn6Ko/edit?usp=sharing For the most part, it went really well. If you compare the two tabs, we had leaned into sleeping in more often but staying out later, which worked out fine in Tokyo and Osaka. Some things we fell short on was stuff to do in Kawaguchiko and Hakone as the buses are jampacked there, so we spent a lot more time at our nice ryokans which worked out because they have tons of amenities. If we had booked regular hotels, I think we would have tried to do more stuff to get our times' worth but the ryokan accommodations were really fantastic. We did decide that many of the touristy spots are too crowded, and Kawaguchiko and Hakone are WAY too crowded in that buses are overrun.. But otherwise a very fun trip. PRE-TRIP We loaded 20,000 into our mobile Suica on our Apple Wallets and it was very handy. As soon as you arrive at NRT you can go grab a drink from the first vending machine you see lol. I 100% suggest you set up mobile Suica before you go! We also bought 10g esims before going and activated it right before getting on the plane (from Los Angeles) so it was working when we landed. Our ryokans and hotels were booked about 3 months in advance and I did as many early reservations I could (about a month before for most). Shibuya Sky during sunset and Pokemon Cafe were the two difficult ones. We didn't book any Shinkansen in advance but we did setup our Hakone freepass and Romancecar tickets. We did all the transit pathing while there via Google maps which worked out just fine. DAY 1 - 4, TOKYO We landed in NRT late afternoon so wasn't much of a chance to do too much and definitely not able to try to ship our luggage directly to our hotel. Based on my research, you'd have to do this before noon at the latest for same-day delivery. Optionally next time I think maybe we can just store necessities in our backpacks and leave our luggage to be delivered on the second day. NRT has free wifi but it can be slow, so we had our esims as backup while we figure some stuff out during immigration. Our hotel was in Iidabashi, Chiyoda City which wasn't too hard to get to. We used the ticket counter at NRT and got on the Skyliner so it was a little faster then a local train to Iidabashi. If you've got time and want to save a little money I think there's a slower way, the Marunouchi line which travels all the way for much cheaper but makes a ton of stops, as we took this back to the airport on our last day. We ate in Ikebukuro just to kind of see some of the city and a nice hot meal before we ended our travel day. Next morning we went to Kaminarimon, Senso-ji, in Asakusa. It's a Saturday so it was SUPER crowded.. Expect some difficulty taking photos as other tourists are very much in the way all the time lol. Still something worth seeing as one of the well-known attractions of Asakusa. Once we had our fill we went to Ginza as we had a lunch reservation at Ginza Toyoda. 5/5 kaiseki style lunch, fantastic introduction to Japanese cuisine that isn't sushi/ramen. Since we're in Ginza, we shopped around the area, not crowded at all. At night we went to an okay omakase sushi join, then went to go see Shibuya Crossing. Super crowded, as expected, but make sure you snap a picture with Hachiko! Day 3 we then went to Takeshita Street, Harajuku. Again, super crowded but a must-see. We then went to Tokyo Skytree and Sumida Aquarium in the evening. They have a combo ticket pack for both if you're interested! Skytree was okay, too crowded, but Sumida Aquarium was pretty cool especially if you love jellyfish. They're right next to each other so very convenient. Our last day in Tokyo before going to Kyoto, we went to see Tsukiji market! Cool experience with the market stalls but know that the food is overpriced and very tourist-centric. We opted for some seafood and the very popular tamagoyaki sticks and that was it. Take the time to go to Toyosu market which is much newer, slightly less crowded, and still some good food options. More of a mall-type restaurant place though so it's not a replacement for Tsukiji market. Teamlab Planets is also nearby so it made an easy transition. Planets is a 5/5 experience, though I don't consider is a must-see for Japan. It's really not even very Japanese-feeling but still a quality experience. At night we went to go check out Shibuya area some more, especially the very large shopping building Shibuya Parco. We also shipped our luggage using Yamato Transport (also known as kuroneko or tak-q-bin/takkyubin) to Kyoto which cost around $25 USD per luggage; our hotel helped fill it out and do the measurements. It was great. We would continue to use this service for the rest of the trip between hotels. DAY 5 - 7, KYOTO We used the SmartEx website to book our Shinkansen tickets which was very handy. I've heard the app sucks so use the website. You might run into VISA problems so book with a Mastercard as a backup (such as Apple Card). They don't give you a physical ticket but it was easy enough to show the QR code to the gate attendants and they either give you a ticket or just pass you through. If they give you a ticket make sure you keep it, as you'll need it to exit with the attendant at your destination as well. Went to Nishiki market which was cool, similar to Tsukiji market. Going to Kiyomizu-dera temple was super crowded but still a worthwhile sight as the traditional Japanese style buildings and temple was great. After that, we went into Gion and I found this duck rice place that was super good and 5/5 meal. Next morning, very early, we went to Arashiyama bamboo forest! Go before 8a if you want a chance at an empty photo. As soon as it hit 8a you see a lot more people arriving. There's a very yummy wagyu beef bowl place called Kijurou nearby which has a line even before it opens, so get in line if you want to eat there, 5/5. Then went to Kinkakuji, the golden temple, which was okay. Tired, we retired early for the next morning. We also got our ready for takkyubin in the morning. And this morning we got up extra early to go to Fushimi Inari so there'd be a lot less people. The earlier the better. He got our pictures in and hiked maybe halfway before deciding cool, we're done with the experience lol. Went to Kyoto Imperial Palace which was very cool, well maintained piece of history. Some shopping, then a night experience at Nijo Castle. The experience was supposed to be for cherry blossoms but they didn't bloom yet so we only saw naked trees.. 1/5 experience. DAY 8 - 9 OSAKA, NARA I'm not a big fan of Osaka but it's still worth a trip. We didn't do that much but at night definitely go see the bustling scene at Dotonbori. Lots of food options and buskers, but again very tourist-centric prices. Went to Nara the next morning, arriving around noon. It was a very chill town and found out that the deer are actually \"wild\" deer, so they come and go. The park is open, very minimal fencing, so the deer just come and go, hang out, etc. There are cracker venders around every corner and no entry fees. Definitely cool experience. Then head to Rokumei Coffee for a fantastic coffee and pastry midday! After coffee we headed back to Osaka and went to Teamlab Botanical Garden.. Not that cool, 3/5, Borderless and Planets are way more fun. DAY 10 - 11, KAWAGUCHIKO In the morning we sent out luggage via takkyubin to our Tokyo hotel and just took a backpack each. Found out that getting to Kawaguchiko from Osaka is not quite streamlined.. So we ended up taking the Shinkansen to Shin-Yokohama then some local-ish trains north, then Odakyu line west into Fuji.. Several transfers and hours later, we got there. Definitely easier to come here straight from Tokyo. Anyway, cloudy weather so we didn't have too great of a shot of Mt Fuji but the lake was beautiful and our ryokan was amazing. Next morning, our view of Mt Fuji was PERFECT with no clouds. We hiked our butts up to Tenku no Torii for pictures which took a bit of time, and another hour of standing in line for it.. Coming down, we went to Houtou Fudou which serves really only one thing and it was delicious, 5/5 would recommend. Went back to enjoy our ryokan onsen! DAY 12 - 13, TOKYO We went back to Tokyo for some filler days because we couldn't line up Hakone right after but we filled it with Shibuya Sky (book a month in advance to get sunset times) and it was 100% better than Tokyo Skytree. The second day we went to Teamlab Borderless which was a 5/5 experience and a coffee tasting at Mameya Kakeru, 5/5 as well. Luggage via takkyubin to our next Tokyo hotel while we just use backpacks for Hakone. DAY 14, HAKONE Getting to Hakone wasn't a big deal, but once you get there it becomes very apparent how difficult it is to get around.. Buses are often full, and it's just overcrowded with tourists. We spent most of the day at our ryokan instead which was full of amenities so no big deal. Next morning we checked out and left our backpacks at the ryokan, and went down to the main town to see the Heiwa no Torii, which was very cool but 1 hour to get there, 2 hours in line, and 2 hours to get back.. Luckily our romance car tickets could get pushed back as we had to go pick up our stuff then get back to the main station which took a long time. I'm not sure I would recommend Hakone to anyone as it is way too crowded for a little town.. We really barely got to use our Hakone freepass and not afraid to say that we didn't get our money's worth. I personally think I would have more fun getting an extra day in Kyoto, maybe visit the outskirts or something. There's a lot more options and just as beautiful. DAY 15 - 18, TOKYO The rest of our trip is in Tokyo where we just do a lot of shopping, visiting Pokemon centers, and the like. We did go to a Rikugien garden nighttime experience which kind of sucked, it was just some lighted pathing and a few photo op setups but it felt very bare minimum effort. We also had a chance to eat at the Pokemon Cafe and it was pretty cool, I didn't expect it to be a whole show. The expectation was just able to order food and drinks with a quick surprise mascot show up but it was a whole like 20 minute show lol. Very cool gifts and exclusive store items. https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1wcZkUSdpkvAQ9hq0Je-vfEROsVkPMWFi3kozT7dn6Ko/edit?usp=sharing HOTEL RATINGS TOKYO - Metropolitan Edmont - 3.5/5, at 19k per night for 2 people, it was a very nice and spacious hotel. Extremely clean and very western metropolitan hospitality. Really enjoyed this one and would consider it again for future Tokyo accommodations. KYOTO - Citadines Karasuma-Gojo - 5/5, at 12k/n, it was extremely spacious and had all the amenities we wanted and more, including an electric stove and microwave. Centrally located which we thought was very convenient. For the price, I think it was excellent and would recommend. OSAKA - Vessel Inn Shinsaibashi - 2/5, at 12k/n, it fell short and was really small, but at least it was clean. The hotel before was nearly 3 times as big as this. It was at least near Dotonbori so it was convenient but hard to recommend. KAWAGUCHIKO - Ubuya Ryokan - 5/5, at 66k/n, it is definitely on the expensive side but it is a very sleek and modern onsen ryokan with BEAUTIFUL window views of Mt Fuji. It includes a fabulous dinner and gorgeous breakfast, tons of amenities, and shuttling which helps justify the pricing. I would definitely come back, highly recommend. Book early. TOKYO - Wing International Kourakuen - 1.5/5, at 10k/n, it was definitely the cheapest accommodation and we felt it. We don't think it even has working A/C as it got very hot as soon as the sun came up and we couldn't get the fan to blow cold air. Would not recommend. HAKONE - Mizunoto Ryokan - 4.5/5, at 50k/n, this place was really nice and we got a private open-air bath on the balcony. It definitely felt more traditional but still fancy hospitality and it had a ton of amenities. I would highly recommend this place if you want to spend more time at the ryokan; if you want to explore Hakone more then staying at this place might feel wasted. Book early. TOKYO - Daiwa Roynet Hotel Shimbashi - 2/5, at 21k/n, we were pretty disappointed. Not very big and bare essentials. Would recommend Metropolitan Edmont in a heartbeat and it was cheaper, too. Or just go back to Wing International as it was half the price for the same size room and similar amenities. Would not recommend."}
{"id": "0107", "text": "Just got back from 14 days in Japan. I found trip reports on Reddit super helpful and thought it might be nice to write one, sort of pass on the favour. We are a couple in our 30s from the UK and this was our first visit to Japan. We are interested in food, art, museums and generally wandering, my partner is also really into video games. We really wanted to spend time exploring and enjoying ourselves, but werent necessarily aiming for a min/max approach. We are quite keen planners and did a lot of research on things to do in advance, but tried to give ourselves room to adapt and stumble across things. Neither of us are big nightlife people. We saved in advance and tried to put ourselves in a position where we didnt need to worry too much about spending, but we also did do things a bit on the cheap like just getting konbini breakfasts. I think Ive also realized we probably arent very discerning since we loved basically everything. Some thoughts below! **TRAVEL** * We flew with **China Eastern Airlines** with a stopover in Shanghai. Personally I think long haul flights are something to be endured rather than savoured so to my mind the flights and layover were fine for the price. Quite a funny selection of films on board with 2014s Interstellar listed under Hot new hits. If you fly with the same airline, I would recommend downloading a few movies/shows to your phone to pass the time. * We used **Pasmo passports** to get around. I think people generally prefer Suica but wed read it wasnt available at Narita and I dont have an iPhone. I kinda feel it was much for muchness, and Pasmo worked fine and was convenient for us to top up. * We **pre-booked Shinkansen** tickets from Tokyo to Osaka, and Kyoto to Osaka. Could not believe the size of the overhead luggage racks on the train - our cases were H75 x W50 x D30cm and fit up there. * We used **google maps** to navigate and this worked well for us. We didnt find the transport system too overwhelming (the station numbering on the metro is genius, why dont more places have that?), but we DID find Japans unreserved love of the shopping centre built into/on top of train stations a bit overwhelming, like just constantly being expelled from a busy train into a Parco was a bit much. We started just trying to find a way out quickly and go from there rather than trying to get to the right exit. **HOTELS** * In Tokyo, we stayed in **Sotetsu Fresa Inn Higashi** in Shinjuku for the first stretch. The room was really tiny so we did have to regularly pull suitcases up onto the bed, but the location was really convenient for getting around, and also great when wed had a long day and decided to eat near the hotel. Had a coin laundry and set up luggage forwarding for us. * In Osaka, we stayed in **Hotel the Flag** in Shinsaibashi. This was a bigger room with a bigger bed which was nice, and again the location was great for getting around. There was a coin laundry and they did luggage forwarding for us. The only thing here was that the room didnt have an openable window so it was really warm and dry, we both kept waking up with sore throats. * In Kyoto, we stayed in **Yu No Yado Shoei**. This was a Ryokan and was really nice. It was a bit more away from it all but that actually suited us at this point in the trip. It had a tattoo-friendly public bath which we loved, so restorative after so much walking. We went everyday. The only drawbacks were that they couldnt set up luggage forwarding and there wasnt a laundry, and we probably should have checked this before booking, but we booked before we knew the luggage forwarding existed. It just meant when we got back to Tokyo we had to go to the hotel near Nippori first. * Back in Tokyo, we stayed in **Hotel Wagokoro** near Nippori station. This was a really nice hotel, enough room to pack which was handy. Did not have a laundry but was opposite one, amazing bakery not far away. **PLANNING AND PREP** * We booked flights first and then worked from there on how to split the time and sort hotels. We booked flights when they felt most affordable/convenient to us, but actually think the timing was good - we caught the odd bit of early blossom but definitely felt like we would have found it overwhelming during the busiest periods in some places. * For hotels we took some recs from the internet and friends but ended up basing the choice mainly on cost and locale as well as online reviews. In Kyoto we wanted to find a ryokan with a public bath which narrowed our options. * To plan our itinerary, we set up a google map and started pinning things we were interested in over a couple of months, including attractions and places we might like to eat. From there, we started grouping things that were close together into possible day plans, and then put this into the **Wanderlog** app. We found Wanderlog quite helpful as it flagged when things were closed as we were planning. We did get the free trial of pro and played with the optimization features but ultimately decided it wasnt worth it, but did like the app. We also updated it at the end of each day to record where wed been. * **Splitting the time:** We settled on bookending the trip with Tokyo as thats where our flights were from, with 3 full days in Osaka (one of which was a trip to Nara) and 2 full days in Kyoto. I know lots of people say Osaka can be a day trip but we really liked it as a city, I actually would have loved to spend a full day in the Expo park where Tower of the Sun is, as we could have spent much longer in the Ethnology Museum and there were other museums there as well as beautiful gardens. I also felt like our two full days in Kyoto were really touristy and we didnt see much of the city proper - these were great days and I wouldnt have skipped what we did, but I was grateful for the day we arrived where we got to see a bit more of the actual city. * Our main sources for recommendations were Reddit, Google (searches like things to do Tokyo, Shibuya itinerary), friends. I think its sometimes easy to get caught in loops and see the same things again and again, especially with recs on TikTok, and I do wish wed done a bit more just looking at google maps to see what else was in areas, like in Arashiyama we would have planned in the Orgel Museum if wed spotted it in advance of actually being there, but it didnt get mentioned in any recommendation articles, we just saw it on the map when we were there and didnt have the time. * **Duolingo:** we both did 4 or so months of Japanese Duolingo in the run up which was sort of helpful, but I think we should have also done some specific phrase learning for travel. I felt like it would have been useful to know, for example, numbers 1-10 and I just didnt make it that far in Duolingo, probably used more from the phrase book we took with us than that. Mostly we said please, thank you, excuse me and google translated anything where we needed help bridging the communication barrier. * **Planning food:** we didnt want to do much queueing, so we werent sure how much wed follow recommendations online. We pinned some places to the map and often used them for ideas when we were out, but didnt stick to them too much. We booked one meal in advance for my partners birthday, at Bird Land in Tokyo. In general, we would decide what we were in the mood to eat and just plonk that into google maps and go somewhere highly rated nearby. This likely means we didnt discover the most interesting spots but ultimately this approach served us well, we enjoyed every meal. Where we ate is in the itinerary below. * **Booking in advance:** we booked Umeda Sky, Tokyo Skytree, Sagano Romantic Train in advance. These were useful anchor points for our days but it was nice to not have too many commitments in place. We also booked the Ghibli Museum in advance we had a few days we could do this which was helpful, and my partner set up booking over 3 devices when it went live. Ultimately I think this is just luck though, he got to be 67th in the queue on one device (others in the deep thousands) and so we got our first choice date. Would recommend having multiple cards you can pay with ready to go as one got rejected for an unknown reason but it worked with another. **PACKING** * We took one big suitcase each and half filled them so we could easily bring stuff back. We took clothes to last a week and then planned to do laundry while away. We did not plan to buy extra clothes there (were both tall and plus size). In the end, we could have probably taken a bit more as we did not buy nearly as much as expected (it looks like most hauls are clothes and cosmetics which just arent huge areas of interest for us). * We took some medicine with us, like paracetamol, ibuprofen, because we figured it would be easier to take than to find there if we werent feeling well. Ibuprofen was good for sore feet. **OTHER THOUGHTS AND CONSIDERATIONS** * It was very dry! Not weather wise but like, the air? We didnt expect this but especially the first few days in Tokyo it just felt like we were shriveling up, even in the rain. We ended up needing to buy moisturizer and lip balm and we got through nearly all of it trying to make our skin feel less like papyrus. * Weather was colder than we expected, if youre going at a similar time I would definitely take a good raincoat and options for light layering. Most shops and attractions have umbrella storage which was amazing. It was also very windy in Tokyo. * For data, we used **Airola e-sims**. We had good coverage throughout the trip, they were easy to set up and quite cheap for 20 MB each, which more than covered all of our navigation and messaging. No complaints. * **Cash** \\- we always had cash on us, generally taking out 7 or 8k yen every few days. However we actually found that, outside of small restaurants, more places took cards than we expected, like museum/gift shops and konbinis. Cash (especially 100 yen pieces) was useful for when we saw cute gacha, goshuin seals, arcade games. We had a lot of change at some points so did sometimes try to pay with it, but wed make sure to count out in advance so we didnt hold up queues or waste peoples time. We also found uniqlo had self-checkouts that took change so I bought some socks for the flight home and paid almost entirely in 10 yen and 1 yen bits. * **Trash** \\- definitely do carry a tote or ziplock bag for rubbish as there are not a lot of bins around. Most konbinis have bins though so we would often drop whatever we were carrying whenever we stopped in for a snack or drink, so we didnt accumulate that much each day in the end. * **Toilets** \\- Japan is really amazing for public toilets. I will envy this of them for the rest of my life. Most train stations, larger shrines or temples, parks and shopping centres have public toilets. This was great. They do not all always have bins for menstrual products though which can be a bit tricky - I found the shopping centre ones tended to though. * **Eki stamps:** we bought an Eki Stamp book towards the end of the first day in a bookstore in Shibuya (I think Books Keibundo) and collected these throughout the trip. In general, this was really fun and made a great souvenir. We started trying to work out the stamp location before getting to a station so we could pick the right exit, aided by the website Funakiya's Travel Stamp Book, which was a good approach because on the occasions we hadnt done this we sometimes got a bit stressed trying to find them when we were tired. Generally we loved Eki stamps though occasionally it did feel like an albatross around our necks, but we definitely have slight completionist tendencies. * **Goshuin seals**: I ended up LOVING visting temples and shrines so we did a goshuin journal that ended up pretty full. We bought it at the first shrine we visited. Getting the seal normally costs 300-500 yen, the majority of temples and shrines will write directly into your book but some (especially bigger or busy ones like Kanda) will give you it on a sheet of paper instead. This is my favourite souvenir of the trip and I think really worth doing if you plan to hit a lot of temples. * **Walking:** we walked A LOT. Ive included our step count in the itinerary below, but almost every day we did 20k+ steps. It was a great way to see different parts of cities, but there were times we overdid it because we maybe hadnt planned the routes well, or because we thought walking and public transport would take a similar amount of time and decided the walk would be nicer, neglecting to consider public transport might at least offer a chance to sit. Overall we managed fine, a few sore feet and blisters along the way but it felt manageable for us, but definitely worth considering what your own limits might be. * **Breakfast:** we ate melon pan from a konbini basically every morning as we decided this was an area we didnt mind compromising on. Also melon pan is great. We did this for lunch sometimes as well. **ITINERARY** Will attempt to keep this brief as this post is already long but happy to discuss anything! The below is what we actually did, rather than what we planned. A lot of the shrines and temples, especially in Kyoto, are ones we stumbled across while walking and went to look around, rather than what we planned in. **Day 1: Tokyo** * Arrived at Tokyo Narita Airport and got Pasmo cards * Travel to hotel in Shinjuku * Immediately purchase a Family Mart Family chiki snack * Wander round Shinjuku and Kabukicho * won a coin purse on the UFO catchers, very useful in the coming weeks! * Went to Don Quijote Shinjuku but bottled it after the second floor, it was so busy and just too much after a long days travellin * Dinner: **Kitakata Ramen Bannai Yotsuya** in Omoide Yokocho * Small place doing pork based ramen where you order via a vending machine, also does great gyoza * Really delicious and exactly what we wanted after a long day of travel, not super busy for the area especially considering it was a Saturday night (maybe we had beginners luck) **Day 2: Tokyo** **26, 708 steps** * Gotokuji temple * Arrived at 8am and it was very quiet, only a few other people there * Shokokuji temple * Shoin shrine * Shiro-Higes cream puff factory * Arrived about 15 minutes before opening and were first in line (it was raining), by opening there were a few other people. This was absolutely delightful. * Japan Folk Crafts Museum * Meiju Jingu * Thought this might be very busy but it was raining so not too bad * Harajuku * Shibuya (Pokemon centre, Nintendo Tokyo, Tower Records, Scramble Crossing) * Lunch: **Tonkatsu Wako Shibuya** Mark City * Inside a shopping centre selling tonkatsu and katsudon * Queued about five minutes * Very generous portions, really nice and crispy food * Dinner: we got a konbini picnic to eat in the hotel room because we were tired **Day 4: Tokyo** **29, 174 steps** * Inarikio Shrine * Kkoku-ji * Jimbocho Book Town * Kita No Maru Park (we had planned to do Museum of Modern Art and the East Gardens of the Imperial Palace after, but neither were open in the end which we hadnt anticipated) * Ginza * Itoya was the highlight for me * We arent big shoppers so Ginza was architecturally interesting but not thrilling for us, felt similar to Regents Street in London where I would only go there if I wanted something specific * Back to Shinjuku for a wander and dinner * Lunch: **CoCo Ichibanya** * Chain of places selling curry, was very cheap and pretty nice * Dinner: **Kameya** in Omoide Yokocho * Unbelievably cheap soba and tempura * Queued for &gt;5 minutes and I think we were lucky to sit together * One of our favourites from the whole trip, just really delicious and a fun one to watch the staff cooking in; they made the vegetable tempura by eye and watching them mix it up was amazing * Dessert: Square Enix Artnia * We went for pancakes, they were pretty good * Not the cheapest but quite a funny experience **Day 4: Tokyo** **22,200 steps** * East Gardens of the Imperial Palace * National Museum of Modern Art * Square Enix Cafe in Akihabara * Was Octopath Traveller 2 themed at the time so quite quiet, think it would pick up for FF7 * Food was nice though more on the expensive side of the places we went * Quite a funny experience and we enjoyed it but not a top tier rec from me * Yanagimori Shrine * Yushima Seido * Kanda Shrine * Wander round Akihabara (my partner got some retro games in various places) * Hanabusa Inari Shrine * Dont travel specifically for this but this was a real favourite of ours, and definitely worth the few minutes detour if youre in Akihabara - tiny shrine nestled in between skyscrapers * Dinner: **Mensho Kamayoshi** * Curry Udon ordered from a vending machine * Has a slimmed down English menu which they were quite insistent we used, also brought us cheese to put on the udon which they didnt do for any non-westerners (we found this funny) * Was really nice and a very generous portion **Day 5: Tokyo** **22,210 steps** * We planned to do the Mitaka City Gallery of Art but discovered it was closed - think this is just evidence we sometimes found Japanese websites run through google translate hard to parse * Ghibli Museum * Walk through Kichijji and looked at Kichijji Petit Mura which was a cool set of buildings * Nakano Broadway * Back to Shinjuku for dinner, UFO catchers and wander * Hanazono shrine at night * Dinner: **Kakekomi Gyoza** * Didnt queue * Really enjoyed the gyoza, very cheap and some surprising ones (some came in a honey mustard sauce which felt not very traditional but extremely good) * Service is quick and orders done through an ipad * Very cheap **Day 6: Travel to Osaka** **19,194 steps** * Shinkansen to Osaka, armed with bento bought at Tokyo station * Namba Kimba shrine * A few shops in Shinsaibashi * Amerika Mura * ate great donuts at BPC donuts * Checked into the hotel * Dotonbori * ate some melon pan at melon bread and had the melon pan song in our heads for the remainder of the trip * Bunraku exhibition at National Bunraku Theatre * I love puppets so this was amazing for me, just a small room of exhibition cases but a great insight into the art form when there arent performances on * Namba Yasaka Shrine * Sennichimae Doguyasuji Shopping Street * This was cool but we knew we were going to do Kappabashi in Tokyo later so didnt buy anything * Hozenji * Dinner: **Oretachino-curry Ramen Koji Labo Osaka-namba** * Didnt queue * Sells curry and ramen, ordered on a vending machine * The worlds largest serving of green onions ever seen, completely amazing * Small place where you can watch them cooking, they filled up a giant rice cooker with a spray hose from across the kitchen and Ive thought about it ever since **Day 6: Osaka** **31,365 steps** * National Museum of Art * We planned to do the Nakanoshima Museum of Art afterwards but it only had a Monet exhibit and no permanent collection which didnt appeal to us at the time, so we skipped it and the nearby rose garden and went to Osaka Castle instead * Osaka Castle (just the grounds, didnt go in) and Hokoku Shrine * Osaka Tenmangu * Tenjinbashi-suji Shopping Street * Tsuyuten Jinja (Ohatsu Tenjin) * Umeda Sky Building * There was a popup video game store at the Parco in Shinsaibashi which we popped into * Lunch: **BUTAGOYA Tenjinbashi** * Didnt queue or plan this, just wandered in when we saw the signs outside * Pork Donburi that was really flavourful, really good, very filling and cheap * Also had unlimited kimchi * Dinner: konbini snacks in the hotel as we were doing laundry **Day 7: Osaka** **26,393 steps** * Tower of the Sun * National Museum of Ethnology * Japan Folk Crafts Museum * Kuromon Ichiba Market * Nipponbashi * Shinsekai * Dinner: **OKO Fun Okonomiyaki Bar** * Queued to order for ten or so minutes, then went inside and sat and waited for food - just one person runs the whole show so service can be slow but that was fine by us as it had a good vibe and comfortable sofas * Vegetarian okonomiyaki place where you can pick different vegetable portions, massive portions even when ordering the medium and very tasty * You prepare drinks yourself from a very wide selection of options (like you could be making cocktails there) which felt completely alien to me as I feel like brits would definitely abuse that system (felt like if I had gone here age 20 I wouldve served myself a tall glass of something straight up and never made it home) **Day 8: Day trip to Nara** **29,596 steps** * Travel to Nara (we arrived about 9 I think) * Nakatanidou Mochi store * Nara Park to feed the deer and visit Kasuga Taisha, Meoto Daikokusha and Kii Shrine * for feeding the deer definitely head into the park a bit and find a chill looking one, we saw some people getting swarmed by the cracker stands * We walked past Todai-ji but decided not to pay to go in (a lot of the larger temples and shrines in Nara had an entry fee which we decided not to go for) * Naramachi Toy Museum * Back to Osaka * Lunch: **Tonkatsu Ganko Nara** * Queued about 20 minutes I think, but it felt like everywhere was busy and we needed a rest * Tonkatsu place in a shopping arcade, was really nice * Dinner: **Hokkyokusei** * Omurice place with tatami mats where you sit on the floor * We wanted to try omurice and were glad to do so, this was perfectly nice but not a highlight **Day 8: Travel to Kyoto** **27,032 steps** * Travel to Kyoto * Kyoto Gyoen National Garden * Shimogoryo Shrine * Kodo Gyogan-ji Temple * Honno-ji Temple * Tensho-ji Temple * Yata-dera * Eifuku-ji Temple * Nishiki Market * Nishiki Tenmangu Shrine * Somedono-in Temple * Nintendo Store Kyoto * Much quieter than the Tokyo one! We bought joycons which were cheaper than in the UK * Sawano cafe * Checked into hotel * Hotel onsen in the eve * Lunch: **Micasadeco &amp; Cafe Kyoto** * We just walked past having heard about this from Eric Kim on instagram, we didnt queue * Souffle pancakes! They were great and very jiggly * Dinner: **Gyoza-dokoro Sukemasa** * We waited about 5 minutes to be seated * Amazing and very flavourful gyoza, only one option on the menu really, extremely cheap * Best gyoza of the trip imo, lovely and gingery **Day 9: Kyoto** **25,187** * Arashiyama Bamboo Forest * Got here at about half 8 and it was quite quiet, it was also raining which might have made it a bit quieter * Nonomiya Shrine and Mikami Shrine * Arashiyama Observation Deck * No one else up here, amazing views even in the rain - the mist rising off the hills was incredible * Arashiyama Monkey Park * Arashiyama Arhat * Seiryogi Temple * Sagano Romantic Train * Hotel onsen in the eve * Lunch: **Houzan** * Does soba noodles and tempura, really nice, lovely view over a garden while you eat * We got there before opening so waited 5 minutes for them to set up, filled up pretty quick though * It was a cold and rainy day but they had the aircon on so we were quite cold * Dinner: **Kyoto Ramen Lab** * Didnt queue * Massive bowls of delicious ramen and also a good selection of sides - we had fried squid and the best kimchi of my life **Day 10: Kyoto** **32,175** * Fushimi Inari Taisha * Arrived at half 8 and it was already quite busy at the bottom end * Walked about half way up to an observation point and it was quieter after the first bit of this * Higashiyama Jisho-ji (paid entry) * Walked the Philosophers path (some of the shrines below were along the way, we also started at the northern end) * Honen-in temple * Otoyo Shrine * Koun-ji Temple * Kumano Nyakuji-jinja Shrine * Okazaki Shrine * Yasaka Kshin-d Temple, plus area around this * We got here at 2pm ish and it was almost unpleasantly busy - a very popular spot it seems! * Kyoto Ryozen Gokoku-jinja Shrine * Ninenzaka * Kiyomizu-dera (paid entry) * Hotel onsen in the eve * Lunch: **Gion Duck Noodles** * This was the only thing we queued a while for as we did really want to try it, we waited about 35 minutes * They dont do one in-one out, they seat the whole place at once. I think theres about ten seats, so if theres over ten people in front of you, youll wait for all of them to finish and for the staff to clear up before you get seated. * Menu is in emoji which we honestly found more confusing than if it had been in Japanese * I had the classic ramen and it was very delicious, my partner had the dipping ramen which I actually think was the better order here - it was amazing with this kind of berry sauce and then a broth * A really great meal and I am glad we did queue for it, but also made me glad wed been lucky not to do much queueing otherwise * Dinner: **Mister Gyoza** * Waited about 5 minutes to be seated * Cheap and cheerful, very lovely gyoza and also great chicken karaage **Day 11: Travel back to Tokyo** **21,068 steps** * Shinkansen to Tokyo * Took our bags to the hotel and were able to check in * Tokyo Waterworks Historical Museum * Brief stop in Akihabara to buy a game my partner had reconsidered * Ikebukuro for a wander, including cinema Rosa, le bois Hiraki and Ike Sun Park * Sunshine City * We felt like we were running on empty a bit this day but ultimately Im not sure Sunshine City was worth the trip - we felt a bit fatigued with shopping centres and this didnt have much we hadnt already visited. I think maybe we should have done some of the museums in Ueno park but not sure we would have enjoyed that since we were wrecked * Dinner: **Kamamaru** in Nippori for Pizza as the tiredness really hit us this day. It was great pizza though. **Day 12: Tokyo** **19, 526 steps** * Otori-jinja shrine * Meguro Parasitological Museum * Mori Art Museum plus a bit of a walk round Roppongi * Akasake Hikawa Shrine * Toranomon Kotohiragu * Kikuchi Kanjitsu Memorial Tomo Museum for Kikuchi Biennale ceramics exhibition * Dinner: **Bird Land** in Ginza for my partners birthday * This was amazing, a real treat. We had the tasting menu with 8 skewers and other elements in between. Everything was delicious and it was so fun to watch them grilling, plus the service was attentive and friendly. Like they gave us a salad with tomatoes in and even the tomatoes blew our minds. One word of warning: the chicken is served a little pink, they obviously know what they are doing and it was juicy and incredible but as someone who grew up in the UK it was definitely a moment of adjustment before the first bite * We thought it was good value for the experience but was obviously the most expensive meal of the trip (has a michelin star) * Booked one month in advance **Day 13: Tokyo** **31,610 steps** * Yanaka Cemetery * Ueno Park including Gojoten Shrine and Shinobazunoike Benten-do * Sogenji Temple * Kappabashi - I bought a knife and some plastic ramen * Asakusa wandering * Nakamise-dori street and Senso-ji * Really busy! Extremely beautiful but very busy * Hikan Inari-jinja Shrine * Tokyo Sky Tree * Lunch: **Asakusa Chicken** * No queue * Very cheap, extremely friendly staff * The best chicken karaage of a trip with a lot of fried chicken * Dinner: **Burari in Nippori** * No queue * Chicken ramen ordered through a vending machine * Delicious, deeply flavoured ramen - probably the best of the trip * Snacks: we also had baked goods from **Higurashi bakery** first thing (amazing) and a creme brulee sweet potato from **Imo Pippi** in Asakusa (delicious) **Day 14: flying home at like 6am from Haneda** **HIGHLIGHTS** In terms of things to do, my highlights were the Ghibli Museum (honestly, it is magical), the folk art museums and ceramics exhibit at Memorial Tomo Museum, the Tower of the Sun (we thought it would be an interesting building with a viewing platform, so the interior took us completely by surprise and was so cool and fun), Sagano Romantic Train (it was windy and rainy so we were pretty much the only people in the outside car so could move around to follow the views, which were lovely), the Nara Toy Museum and wandering round Kappabashi and also the shrines and temples. Sawano cafe in Kyoto was also a real treat - we stopped in for a drink and the owner made us some adorable, delicate animals carved out of fruit, he was a lovely person. In food terms, my favourite meals were at Birdland (Ginza, Tokyo), Burari (Nippori, Tokyo), Kameya (Shinjuku, Tokyo), Asakusa Chicken (Asakusa, Tokyo), Gyoza-dokoro Sukemasa (Kyoto) and Gion Duck Noodles (Kyoto)."}
{"id": "0108", "text": "I just got back from 8-day trip to Japan with a group of 13 travellers. It's our third time to Japan and had planned it to be a skiing trip to Hakuba. I am an overplanner and planned most the itinerary. Suprisingly, was able to do most of the things on my list. Long report to follow. TLDR/went to ski, weather sucked, enjoyed the food instead.. Things we did pre-arrival: booked transfers to/from airport (easy and cheaper when travelling in big group with large snowboard bags); booked shinkansen tickets (multiple websites including SmartEx, JR-West, ekinet); booked various restaurants (tablecheck, Jpneazy, autoreserve). Booked Shibuya sky, Teamlabs Borderless. Setup Suica card on iphones for eveyrone in the group. Day 1: Late arrival in Tokyo (8pm via Zipair from SFO). Very quickly processed through immigration (15-min). Private transfer for our group straight to the hotel was nice due to large number of bags we had. We stayed at various hotels in Ginza. First meal was at a brothless ramen spot. Tokyo Abura-soba Ginza. long line outside but food was great. Day 2: Early wakeup due to jetlag. My wife and I went to checkout the huge Starbucks Reserve in the Naka-Meguro neighborhood. Beautiful facility- was empty when we arrived but quickly filled up. I hate starbucks but this one had very good espresso drinks. I left my wife and went to train Brazilian jiu jitsu at a local gym nearby. We had lunch at Tempura Abe Honten in ginza on a reservation made via Autoreserve- thoroughly enjoyed the tempura here; very affordable- about 8 pieces, chef's choice for $20. Rejoined our large group at Tokyo Station. went shopping for bento boxes and made it on our bullet train to Nagano Station. Our tickets were tied to suica cards which made it very easy to board. Our friends had paper ticket and had hard time figuring out which one to put into the gates. After arrival at Nagano station, we had private transfer to our accomodations in Hakuba. We stayed near the base of Happo-one and had hard time finding transportation to/from our airbnb. Many of the taxi company did not answer phone or were booked. We eventually realized best bet is to go to a hotel and ask them to call. At dinner a small cafe - most places were completely booked for dinner. Day 3: Skied at Happo-one resort. Weather sucked- it was very warm the last 2-3 days so the snow was very wet and soft. Towards the end of the day, it started raining on the mountain. Not what we had expected for \"JaPow\". Food on the mountain was great though. Each lodge had something different. We turned a crappy ski day into a ski food tour- had omurice at one lodge, curry katsu at another lodge, and very tasty ramen at the last lodge. We had a mixed group of friends and family and young kids and wanted a pseudo-onsen experience. They recently reopened a private onse, Happo Onsen Obinata no yu, that you can reserve for your group. This onsen allows you to go in with your bathing suits. They also pick you up and drop you off from your accomodations. Not many places were available for large dinner. We at at Mansaku Sukiyaki and Shabu -- shabu place in a hotel. only redeeming quality about this meal was that they could accomodate our large group. the food sucked. Don't go here. Day 4: Starting raining extremely hard now washing away much of the snow at the base of the mountain. Decided to cancel the skiing and do the monkey park instead. We took a bus back to Nagano station and a second bus to the monkey park. Very cool experience watching the monkeys in the onsen. On our way back home, ate in Nagano at a tasty Tonaktsu spot next to train station (Tonkatus Maisen). As a smaller group, went to the Hakuba Happo Onsen located conveniently across from the bus station. Had dinner at Yamanami steakhouse/teppanyaki. Had made this reservation a couple months ago by calling the restaurant directly. One of the only other place in town that can take large party. This place was decent with high quality beef. Finished off the night at Bar 898 - a new bar at the base of Happo-one. Expensive drinks, australian bartenders, drinks were decent but certainly not \"craft\"-not the vibe we were going for. Day 5: Due to rain and crappy ski condition, decided to head to Kyoto early. We split up again with some staying at ryoken and others at the Park Hyatt. Our ryokan/Machiya was beautiful - Kyoto Machiya Zeniyacho. Large enough to fit 5 people with indoor and outdoor baths. Great location near Kyoto Station. Dinner was at Michelin 1\\*, KOKE -- very nice high end meal with spanish influences. Day 6: Woke up early and did the whole kimino rental/picture thing with the family and friends walking the streets of Sannenzaka and Ninenzaka. It was actually not as crowded as I expected. Took some nice photos. Guys broke off from the trip to do the Suntory distiller tour. Was able to score last minute cancellation tickets. This tour was great if you are into whiskey. Very informative tour with 3 included tasting of various yamazaki whiskey (no age). Access to tasting room where you can taste some very exclusive whiskey including Yamazaki 21 and Hibiki 30. After whiskey tasting, had nice okonomiyaki meal nearby. We joined the rest of the group at Fushimi Inari for more photos. Much more crowded here in the afternoon. After returning kimino, went to Nishiki market for some snacking. Had some drinks at Bee's Knees in Pontocho alley. Dinner tonight was at the extremely hard to book spot, Yakitori Hitomi. I had tried for months to get in and asked Park Hyatt concierge for help. They indicated that it was not possible as many of the spots are taken by locals 6-8 months out. Jpneazy was able to score last minute counter spot for us for 2. Great Meal! Probably best yakitori -- chef's choice here plus numerous additional skewers and drinks for about $30 USD each person. Would love to be able to come back to this spot next time. Day 7: after checking out, went up to Kiyomizu-dera. Very crowded- it was a national holiday (emperor's birthday). Went back to grab lunch at Ginjo Ramen Kubota. Really good tsukemen- no lines when we arrived at 10:45- but long line when we finished our meal. Took bullet train from Kyoto station to Shinagawa Station and taxi to grand hyatt. Hotel is great with awesome fitness facilities. Location is sorta annoying having to take multiple trains to get to most spots. Early dinner with wife and son at Jambo Hanare (recommended here and on various other sites). Booked this on tablecheck - reservations were gone within 5 minutes of being released. Really good yakiniku. Explorered shinjuku and Omoide Yokocho taking some really cool photos. Vey lively to just walk the streets. Most of the stalls were completely packed. Dropped off son and had second dinner with friends at The Bellwood sushi (also recommended here on Reddit). This was a disappointment. 3 drinks were weak - could not order from the actual bar. The sushi (12 pieces?) were overdressed with sauces and condiments. the sushi chef was very friendly and made the experience enjoyable but I was disappointed in the sushi quality. Day 8: Teamlab Borderless... wasn't worth it, imo. Lunch at Gyukatsu Motomura - instagram popular restaurant, also overrated. made a reservation that I probably didn't need to make and couldn't cancel. Many better options for lunch. finished off the trip with visit to Shibuya. Group went souvenir shopping at Mega Don Quixote. Went up to shibuya sky for photos. It was a clear and relatively warm/windless day so it was beautfiul up there. Tip - don't bother buying so much food/candy type souvenir in town - especially if your bags have weight limits (like zipair). Most of the popular items can be found at the airport post security and you can load up without zipair weighing your bags again. Our next trip will likely be Hokkaido, Sapporo, Niseko. Hopefully get better snow next time! &amp;#x200B; &amp;#x200B; &amp;#x200B; &amp;#x200B; &amp;#x200B;"}
{"id": "0109", "text": "Just got back from 9 nights in Japan. I flew in and out of Tokyo (HND) and hit the following cities in the following order: Tokyo &gt; Hakone &gt; Kyoto &gt; Osaka &gt; Tokyo Pre Japan: I was in Los Angeles (flew in from NYC) for 6 nights for a work all-hands event. I stayed in LA for one extra day to do light tourism. During this trip I did a lot of networking (exhausting) and also went out to team dinners/happy-hours/bar hopping late night (also exhausting) almost every day of the trip. Being in Los Angeles cut down on my flight length and cost, which made it more feasible for me to get to Japan. &amp;#x200B; * Tokyo ( 3 nights ) * Day 1: I arrived on my 32nd birthday, and part of taking this trip was a gift to myself and an attempt to avoid the pressure of making birthday plans at home. My flight was delayed 3 hours, but I knew that the night before, which allowed me to wake up at 9am instead of 6am. It also meant I arrived in Japan closer to 6pm instead of 3pm. Knowing I was going to be tired, I stayed at one of the more expensive hotels on my trip (still only $220 USD / night). The hotel was Hotel Century Southern tower, and I highly recommend. It was very nice and not too expensive. It was a high-rise hotel in Shinjuku with great views. Since I was absolutely dead from jetlag + the previous week, all I did was walk around the area around my hotel to get my bearings straight and get food at a local Japanese BBQ spot. I did forget to get money out of the ATM and had difficulty finding a spot to eat and order, but it was my first day. After dinner I stopped at 7/11 and picked up a few goodies and drinks to stock in my hotel room. I went to bed by 10pm * Day 2: Following a good night of sleep, I woke up early and took my sweaty LA clothes to do laundry nearby. All the instructions were in japanese and I tried to use google translate, but struggled. A japanese local who didn't speak english helped me out (we communicated mostly with body language) - and the detergent was out of order so he went back to his apartment to grab some and gave it to me for free. While my laundry was running I took a lap around the area and just enjoyed walking through quiet residential alleys and streets. A lot of charming sights, cool views of trains walking by, nice little flower gardens. Clean streets, etc. I came back to my hotel to finish my laundry and left the house dressed for cold weather and rain. I wore Uniqlo heat tech leggings and undershirt, a rain jacket, and a fleece northface, and Goretex boots that I bought in case we had rain/cold (this all cam in handy later). I went out to Shibuya to go shopping for clothes. Right before the rain started I stoped in Family Mart for an umbrella. I popped into a bunch of stores, then went to a fantastic conveyor belt sushi spot in a mall. I talked to a Korean girl next to me, and she recommended I try Okonomyaki in Kyoto/Osaka. When I left the mall, to my surprise it was snowing, which apparently only happens like once or twice a year in Tokyo. With my Umbrella + snow gear, I was well prepped. I spent 4 hours walking around shopping, and bought 2-3 items from cool vintage stores. I tried to get cool stuff that isn't necessarily found in the US. By this time it was pitch dark outside and the snow was coming down HARD. I came back to my hotel and instead of going out like I initially planned, I decided to just get food at the hotel restaurant because the snow was pouring, there was lightning, there was heavy wind, and I didn't want to wear myself out. The snow kept going all night and apparently it was one of the biggest snowstorms they've had in 10 years. * Day 3: After another early night to bed, I went to Asakusa to see the Senso Ji shrine. This was recommended to me by my hotel restaurant waiter the previous night. I didn't quite get there as early as I would've liked and there were lots of tourists, but it was still cool to see. I had to trudge through some slush, but by late in the day the snow was basically all gone. After the shrine, I walked to the Tokyo Skytree which had pretty amazing panoramic views of the city. On my way back to the hotel I was a bit of an idiot and messed up my navigation back home on the train, but I never took the wrong train or went in the wrong direction. Just got confused by the entrances. Someone at a vintage shop in Shibuya the previous day had recommended a ramen spot that he called the best in the city (Shiina Ramen). It opened at 6pm. They used a ticketing system and there was basically no wait and it was not expensive. Very good. Before I went there, I was so hungry that I went to an izakaya and got a few glasses of Sake + a few orders of dumplings. Afterwards I headed to Golden Gai (a few blocks of narrow alleyways and cool divey bars that fit 8 or so people). Lots of places had cover fees. It was basically all tourists - mostly Australians who were in Japan for ski trips. I noticed that most people were just kinda walking around looking for a place to go and not actually stopping inside. I spent an hour or two alone drinking 1-2 beers and looking for a spot to go. I met a few people that weren't really my vibe, and I was close to going home. Then I found a cool spot and several groups of 2-3 australians came in and we all got drunk together and had a really good time. Then a couple of cute girls came in and joined the group (sitting across the long table from me). I was almost about to call it a night and go home but ended up talking to the girl (she used to live in the same NYC neighborhood I live in) and we bounced to a Karaoke Bar. We stayed out until 3am and we ended up having a kiss at the end of the night, exchanged IG, planned to link in Osaka (but our timelines never matched up bc we were in different cities). I kinda have a travel crush and would like to see here again, but she lives far away. I got back to the hotel late. * Hakone (1 night) * Day 4: After a night out and having a few days to adjust to jetlag, I thought it made sense to plan a relaxing day away for recovery. I took a train a few hours to get to Hakone and stayed at a mid-budget Ryokan (Motoyo Kansuiro) and found it to be incredibly beautiful, situated right on the river, great interior design, etc. Hotel check-in was at 3pm and the dinner was 6pm. This didn't give me any time to do anything in Hakone except stay in the Ryokan, and that was perfectly fine with me. I thought initially that Mt. Hood was going to be really easy to get to, but that would've been a whole other day trip. Either way, the traditional Ryokan experience was fantastic. I went down by the river and kicked my feet into the flowing river and just relaxed for an hour and watched the sunset. Then I enjoyed traditional japanese dinner served to me in my room. I put on the Yukata. It was great. Afterwards I headed to the Onsen nervously, but I was the only male in the Ryokan and had it all to myself. Even though it was like 4 degrees Celcius, the Onsen heated my body so much that I had to get out every few minutes and just relax in the freezing cold. But it didn't feel cold at all because my body temperature was elevated. It was great. * Kyoto (2 nights) * Day 5: I woke up in Hakone early, got served my breakfast, took one last plunge in the Onsen, then checked out of the hotel, nearly forgetting my carry-on luggage. I took romancecar back on stop to Odawara, then Shinkasen to Kyoto. Mid trip I was seconds away from missing the transfer to a parallel train at one point, but managed to get on the right train in time. I got to my hotel at around 4pm which gave me just enough time to go outside, walk around the area by my hotel, walk around Gion, go to a random temple, and find an izakaya for dinner. The food was very solid and it ended up filling with lots of tourists - but a healthy mix of locals and tourists. The people I met at the bar weren't really my vibe - wanted to talk about politics that I didn't really agree with - but it was good to talk and meet with some people. I found out the next day that Kyoto nightlife is not very good, but I think going to a lively izakaya is the move in Kyoto if you want to drink and meet people. The bar scene is pretty whack (although I didn't have much time to truly navigate it) * Day 6: I woke up relatively early to get to Fushimi Inari, but again - not early enough to beat the crowds. I hiked to the top. This may sound controvercial to say, but I sort of found that once you've seen one temple in Tokyo/Osaka, you've kind of seen them all. But Fushimi Inari is a bit different - and I really enjoyed the hike to the top. The view wasn't anything crazy, but it was good to break a sweat and walking through the gates is pretty neat. I stopped at a fantastic French/Japanese fusion spot after. Then I walked along the river and sat down for a bit. When I came back I walked around what I thought was Nishiki Market but instead was just a massive outdoor mall with cover. I was honestly extremely impressed with the shopping. Some of the best military supply, vintage clothing, and general shopping i've seen in a while, and not the quality I expected from a commercial tourist area. I ended up buying some expensive sneakers at Graphpaper, then got a fish massage (cool experience, not too expensive) before heading home. Since it was Friday night I walked around looking for bars. Ended up meeting 2 really cute english speaking ex-pats living in japan and went to a bar with them after looking around for something cool for a while. The vibes at the bar were pretty whack and we looked up info on the best bars in Kyoto and it turned out we were already at one of the \"best bars\". I had a great time in Kyoto and it is a great city but I have to say it has probably the worst bar/nighlife scene of any city i've been to. I wasn't trying to go crazy or be a drunk tourist menace, but the vibes were just off. Nightlife was not the purpose of Kyoto though, and I met some nice people. Just a footnote. I came home by 11pm and started preparing for one night in Osaka. * Osaka (1 night) * Day 7: Since my hotel check-out was 10am in Kyoto and my Osaka Check in was 3pm, I had a solid 3 hours or so to kill in Kyoto so I went to kiyomizu-dera. The temples were cool, but for me it wasn't too different from others. The crowds were insane. The pictures were nice though and it is situated on a solid elevated viewpoint of the city. I came back to my hotel to get my bags and took the Limited Express train to Osaka. Let me just say right now that the train experience in Japan is so freaking good. Whether it be getting around a city on local trains, getting to nearby day-trips or local stops, or covering large distances... everything is so simple, so easy, so well connected, and it is orderly and quiet. A lot of times navigating this can be stressful because of how loud and chaotic it can be in most cities. But japan was just lovely. Anyways. Got to Osaka. My plan for osaka was basically to just go out for good food and then hit the bar scene a bit. I got some fantastic fried dough with powdered sugar and cream filling. I got fantastic Japanese BBQ (I thought I balled out but the bill came out to just $55 bucks or so - no tipping. Crazy how cheap and devalued the yen is. Afterwards I went out to a series of bars for 1 or 2 drinks that I found on reddit. While it was livelier than Kyoto, I still found the nightlife scene to be a bit whack. The first 3 bars I went to were all australian tourists with about 40 guys to 5 girls, everyone in japan to go skiiing. Dudes were so horny just lining up to talk to girls. Another bar had an american expat but he started talking about politics and was just saying a lot of right-wing stuff I didn't really agree with and didn't want to talk about. Finally I went to another bar where there was about 5 people and they were SOOO friendly and happy to see me. I stayed there until 3am or so and it was lovely but again the vibes were just a bit weird. Still had a fun time. It is just different from what I'm used to. * Tokyo (2 nights) * Day 8: I took the shinkasen back to tokyo for the final portion of my trip. This time I stayed in a cheaper hotel in Shibuya. Hotel was fine, and affordable. A bit of a walk from the subway and not that fun going through shibuya scramble all the time, but being 10 minutes away from that allowed me to see a slightly quieter side of shibuya. I walked around Yoyogi park around sunset and generally wandered around the area to see some of the streets I missed on my first trip to Tokyo. By the end of the day I was exhausted from hangover/travel and just picked a random perfectly acceptable ramen spot a stones throw away from my hotel. Then I went to bed early. * Day 9: The Super Bowl started at 8:30am and as an american football fan I couldn't miss it. Even though it was early and tired I made my way to a sports bar in shibuya halfway through the first quarter and it was a MADHOUSE. But I had so much fun. Obviously it was almost all tourists and heavily american but everyone was so friendly. I got lots of free drinks and ended up getting festively drunk before noon and met a ton of people. When the game was over a few of us went to a really nice sushi spot in Akasuka. We split up after the fantastic lunch and instead of a 30 minute subway ride home I decided to walk an hour so that I could see different parts of the city. I had nothing else really to \"knock off my list\" and i was on my last day so I just enjoyed the walk. I initially planned on going to a fancy bar directly across from my hotel but when I got there, there was a line and I just wasn't really up for a line, and didn't really want to drink that badly. I was more looking for a relaxing wind-down to my trip. So I went back to my hotel and got to relax. * Day 10: my flight was at 5pm so after I checked out of my hotel I had 2 hours to kill. I took a train to Ginza to look for some small souvenir to bring back but couldn't find anything in a short period of time. I took the train back to my hotel, got my bags, got an uber, chilled for 3 hours in the airport, flew back to LA in 10 hours, had a 5 hour layover, boarded the 6 hour flight to NYC, got stuck on the tarmac for 3 hours. I handled jetlag in the worst possible way and slept through the entire flight. Finally got back home at 2am and stayed up unpacking, doing laundry, and rotting on my couch until 5am. Slept until noon. Did errands, groceries, etc. while sleepy with crazy brain fog. Takeaways: * Staying in Hakone in a Ryokan was so nice and needed. Having a full day to just relax and get away from the pressures of a tight schedule and the stimuli of a city was great and I think every solo trip requires a trip like this to break it up. I'll make sure to do this on all trips going forward. * The train system in Japan is awesome. I've never been on a trip anywhere that getting around was so easy. Getting around the city even in places with robust public transit can still be stressful, loud, overcrowded, and anxiety inducing. Japan is just so efficient and simple. There's always a stop nearby. The train is always on time. You never have to wait more than 5 minutes. It is crowded but I never experience \"too crowded\". Everyone is quiet. The shinkasen is so much better than flying to get around cities that are a few hours apart. It makes city hopping so easy. And limited express trains seamlessly get you both across the city and to day trips with zero stress and almost no need to plan ahead. The rest of the world needs to take notes. If you are the type of person who gets travel anxiety, I would imagine Japan would be a good place to try to experience something different. * Except for the absolutely mobbed tourist spots, most people are spatially aware which makes walking around less stressful. 95% of people move to the side on escalators allowing you to walk by them. People generally don't block the entire sidewalk. * I found that most Japanese don't speak very good english - and I'm a tourist so I'm not mad about it. Google translate effectively solved any logistical communication gaps, but it was definitely hard to meet locals and it meant that I was kinda limited to tourist spots if I wanted to meet people or go out for drinks. While I did have 1 or 2 really fun bar experiences, I generally find coming to another country and then only hanging out with tourists to be missing out on some of the culture. I would also say that generally speaking the nightlife in Japan for a tourist wasn't that amazing and was a very different vibe from Europe/USA. I like to do a healthy mix of experiencing culture, sightseeing, discovering neighborhoods, and nightlife. The purpose of this trip was not primarily for nightlife, but if nightlife is a big part of your travel experience, I think you might want to try somewhere other than Japan. * The first half of my trip was basically perfect and I was extremely lucky to meet the people I did, and plan out the perfect amount of time for activities without overdoing it. I didn't have the same amount of perfect luck in meeting people during the second half of my trip but I was cognizant that I was lucky during the first 5 days and didn't set my expectations too high (with the exception of the super bowl bar experience, which was awesome). I think that managing expectations is extremely important for solo travel because the experience can't always be perfectly planned and you can't always luck into meeting the right people at the right time. But it really makes you appreciate the times when the stars align. * By the end of my trip, the novelty of the vastly different culture and amazing way of navigating the city started to become more routine. During these periods I tend to get a bit more anxious and restless and start missing home a bit. I think it would be hard for me to travel for 1 or 2 months, but I'm trying to learn to adjust my mentality and my expectations so that I can just relax and be present. I stayed just long enough to enjoy everything, but I started noticing myself just beginning to miss home by the last couple days. I may edit this post to add any takeaways. I'm using this post as a bit of a journal/diary entry for myself, but I hope others can take something away as well."}
{"id": "0110", "text": "Hello r/JapanTravel ! I just got back from my honeymoon in Japan, and I used this subreddit non-stop for help. I've never posted on reddit, but given how much fund I had/how helpful this community was, I wanted to publish a trip report here in hopes that I can help someone else plan their trip to Japan! &amp;#x200B; * I will add tips and such throughout as well as my subjective views on hotels we stayed at/restaurants we ate at. * Unless otherwise noted, we always took public transportation: busses, subways/metro, and trains. * I will put in the comments just a list and a small rating of every hotel we stayed at and restaurant we ate at! * I had a small backpack that I carried around everywhere with medicine, a water bottle, our itinerary, and our pocket wifi. &amp;#x200B; **Day 0: December 10 - Tokyo** We landed in Haneda airport at 6pm after a long flight from Los Angeles, we picked up our JR passes\\* at the airport, called a taxi, and went to spend the night in the Grand Hyatt in Roppongi. Our pocket wifi\\*\\* that we ordered had already arrived and was in our room. We were quite tired, ordered room service, and conked out. &amp;#x200B; \\*We bought the JR passes before the price increase, and I still think overall we lost just a bit of money on them; however, it was very convenient having them. I don't know if I would recommend with the new prices! \\*\\*Having the pocket wifi was excellent. We basically were always able to use google maps without needing to pay $10 a day for service it turned out to only be $4 thanks to the pocket wifi. We could also imessage and whatsapp if need be. **Day 1: December 11 - Tokyo (Shibuya, Meiji Shrine, Harajuku)** Our first day in Tokyo! My wife has been to Japan once before, but it was my first time so excitement was high! We had gotten tickets to Shibuya Sky\\*, and it was well worth it! I can understand it being a little overhyped, but, if you make it a day one activity, it is fun to see how big Tokyo is! The ginkgo trees still had their golden leaves, and it was wonderful looking out into Yoyogi park. A TON of shopping in shibuya scramble\\*\\* going through Tokyu Hands and a bunch of other stores. Really just taking our time and not rushing on day 1. Lunch was 7-11: grabbed some onigiri, sandwiches, rice balls. We then went to the rooftop of Miyashita Park, found some benches and ate our lunch. We walked through Shibuya crossing a bunch of times taking lots of videos. It's fun! Allow yourself to be a tourist, just be respectful and don't block people's way! Free of our bags, we ventured out to Yoyogi park, walked through to Meiji Shrine, got some prayer votives, and really enjoyed our time there. A short walk as the sun was setting to Takeshita street which was....very touristy but also very fun! The food is very gimmicky and again, kinda fun for the first day to try a potatornado, 5 layer cotton candy, cremia ice cream, and a crepe from Marion crepes. Walked a bit down Omote Sando and then took cat street all the way back to Shibuya for dinner at a big Izakaya (). We didn't look up reviews, and we weren't that hungry. It was fine! It has super low reviews online, but we didn't mind. Subway back to Roppongi. Rested at the Grand Hyatt and went out for a drink at Brewdog Roppongi. \\*We bought our tickets 1 weeks prior, and they were 2200 Yen a pop. \\*\\* We had a lot of bags from our shopping and wanted to be free of them. There are coin lockers EVERYWHERE. Just keep your eyes peeled near subway stations, and ask an information desk near any mall. They will help you **Day 2: December 12 - Tokyo (Tsukiji Fish Market, Temples/Shrines, Geishas, Gion district, Shinjuku OH MAN)** We had a tour guide today! We booked a 6 hour tour with Tomoko Hiragi (you can find her online, she was AMAZING). She took us around the Tsukiji fish market, went to Fukagawa Fudo Buddhist Temple and watched a Gomadaki fire ceremony (very, very cool to witness), walked next door to Tomioka Hachiman Shrine, grabbed lunch at a tempura place that she picked for us, then to Kagurazaka to see the Geisha district (and we even saw a Mako!), before heading to Ginza and exploring the backstreets and finding out that department stores have secret underground food malls! I cannot begin to express how amazing having a tour guide was. We aren't usually tour guide people, but this (and one other tour) was a wedding present for us from a family friend, and it's changed my mind on the subject. We were able to ask so many questions about Tokyo/Japan in general, and Tomoko-san was able to give so much more insight to the places we were visiting (her father worked for decades in Tsukiji fish market). We were pretty gassed by the end of this so we headed back to the hotel and chilled for a few hours. With our energy returning we ventured out, grabbed ramen at Ginza Kagari Roppongi Hills (Very very tasty!) Before heading out to Shinjuku. Shinjuku station was a nightmare, but we eventually managed to figure out how to get to the Metropolitan building get to the top and enjoy the views. This was well worth the extra 20 minutes of walking, its free and is quite cozy up there. We also saw there was a stamp you could get\\*. We then walked all the way back to boodle around Shinjuku. We saw the big curved billboard screen with the cat. We got some drinks at Golden Gai Alley and made some friends. Hit up some capsule stores, claw machines, played some arcade games, walked around some areas that were a bit more \"R-rated\" and just had a blast. A long day! \\*So many places all over Japan had stamps. I was kicking myself for not picking up a small notebook or something of that ilk to put all my stamps in. Instead, I have my paper itinerary stamped to within an inch of it's life. **Day 3: December 13 - Tokyo (Ginza, Team Planet)** An easy morning before we set out to Ginza for some more shopping! We have lunch reservations at Ginza Kyubey\\* so we're staying in the area. We did some damage to the credit card at Itoya and Uni-Qlo. If you like stationary and cool clothing, these places are for you! Lunch was omakase sushi at Kyubey and it lived up to the hype. Really fresh fish, excellent presentation, chefs were kind and informative. Top 10 dining experience of my life. We had a TeamLab reservation at 4:20pm (coincidence, I swear) and so we slowly meandered our way there. TeamLab was very cool and very fun. It's also crowded and very trendy with lots of people constantly taking pictures and videos for social media. If you're in the right headspace, it's a lot of fun. If you sour on that kind of stuff, it might not be for you. We had a blast, especially in the Koi pond room! Then we traveled back and had some Ramen at Afuri before calling it a night. \\*We made reservations EXACTLY 2 months before the day we wanted to go. **Day 4: December 14 - Tokyo (Disneysea)** There's probably 10,000 posts on Tokyo Disneysea so let me not bore you with too many details. We made it from rope-drop to the fireworks show. How have we kept going this hard? BECAUSE WERE TOUGH! (We will eventually realize we went too hard) Musts: Green alien mochi, buy a fast pass for soaring (dont wait 3 hours its just not worth it), and do single rider for Indiana jones. The Sinbad ride song will change your life. Great popcorns. The Believe! show is something else. It'll take your breath away. If you want good seats prepare to sit in them for an hour+ and get comfortable with something warm in the winter. Worth it though. **Day 5: Decemeber 15 - Tokyo (Harajuku, Shinjuku-Gyoen Park)** Like a maniac, I got up at 7:00am to go get breakfast sushi at Tsukiji Itadori Bekkan while my wife with common sense slept in. I dragged my now sleep-deprived, Disney-addled body through the cold wet streets of Tsukiji market for what? Some of the best sushi I've ver had? Yeah....I guess it was worth it. I then returned and my wife wanted to go back to Harajuku now that she was feeling better. We both were pretty tired so we went to a cat cafe there (as we were missing our cats at home too), and it was so pleasant! We have heard bad things about the hedgehog/owl cafes, but the cat cafe we visited was excellent. We then spent some time on Takeshida street again, but ventured further out and just walked and walked and took it easy. We eventually (somewhat by happenstance) ventured towards Shinjuku-Gyoen Park and there were the last vestiges of maples leaves and golden ginkgos. It was absolutely lovely. We had a reservation that evening at Butagumi (Pork Tonkatsu) for dinner, and it was exquisite! Such a charming restaurant and the pork was so good! **Day 6: December 16 - Shibu Onsen** After quite a few days in Tokyo, and still with plenty left to do for our next trip (Ghibli museum, Asakusa, Akihabara) we took the shinkansen to Nagano, then took a train to Shibu Onsen. You may have not heard about it, but it's a small onsen town just outside of the Jigokudani monkey park. We arrived in the afternoon and stayed at a very decent Ryokan: Shibu Onsen KOKUYA. The town is special as there are 9 onsen that only people who are staying overnight can use. You can also get a towel and stamp at each of the onsen and then at a shrine when you are finished. It's said that if you bathe in all 9 onsen you will have good health for the coming year! The Ryokan itself also had multiple onsen for just the Ryokan guests. We got a room with our own private Onsen because my wife has a medium sized shoulder tattoo, and we weren't sure on how strict people were going to be about tattoos. With all that said, we would find out later tonight. We changed into our Yukatas and went down for our first Ryokan dinner. We had a wildly interesting Ryokan dinner mixing from really wonderful things, to things I have never tried but loved, to things I might not necessarily try again. The service is amazing. Everyone working there is so kind, always bringing you tea and water. We finished up and went out into the cold night. We had an overcoat similar to a haori (though they had a different name for it). We had a big special key that our Ryokan provided us and we went to 4 of the 9 baths. For those wondering here's a few of answers. * Yes, you get fully naked and there \\~might\\~ be other people there (we had some bathhouses to ourselves, and others there was maybe 1 or 2 people) * They are separated by gender but you can still somewhat hear each other over the adjoining wall * There is no \"front desk\" or anyone checking for tattoos. I'm not gonna say this is a rule for all of Japan, but here at least it did not feel like a big issue to have a small-medium sized tattoo. It was also evening in December in off-tourist season so things could change. * Yes, the water is hotter than you think it is. As one Japanese man in his early 20s told me \"Pain. Pain.\" **Day 7: December 17 - Shibu Onsen (Jigokudani Yaen-Koen)** We had Japanese breakfast! It was...interesting. I don't mind fish in the morning, but first thing in the morning the array of different pickled items were not to my taste. We then took the bus and wend our way up to the Monkeypark. It's a 40 minute hike up and it was COLD. To our luck it started snowing! The monkeys are so fun and cute and funny and wonderful to watch. We probably stayed for about an hour maybe a bit more. It ended up being so cold and biting that we went back into the admissions hut before heading back down. Then we just....chilled. We hit up 3 of the onsen in our Ryokan where we could enter together as opposed to the ones in the town. We had another amazing dinner. Then finished out our remaining 5 public onsen. Something very magical about it snowing while you're outdoors in a Yukata simmering hot after an onsen visit. **Day 8: December 18 - Takayama** We took 3 different trains/shinkansen to get from Shibu Onsen to Takayama, and it was so worth it. The scenery with snow was transcendent. Part of the allure of hitting up these spots was to take the trains out near the mountains! We arrived in Takayama in the late afternoon and we found our way to Sumiyoshi Ryokan. This was one of our favorite places to stay based solely on the elderly couple running it. They were beyond fun, kind, and wonderful, they were also funny and charming and silly. Everything you've ever wanted in a Ryokan host. Since we didn't plan we just kind of walked around the old town, then went looking for dinner. Surprisingly by 6pm everything either was booked or had a 2 hour line. We had some subpar beef bowls and ramen before turning in for the evening. **Day 9: December 19 - Takayama &amp; Shirakawa Go** We had another Japanese Breakfast but this one I enjoyed a lot more! Maybe I do like pickles and miso in the morning. We then set out to explore the Old Town of Takayama and made our way to the Higahiyama walking course. I couldn't find much online as to whether or not this was worth it, and I saw something about there being bears. We didn't encounter any bears but you can take certain precautions like wearing bear bells and making noise as you walk. The walking course itself was stunning! We maybe got lucky in that we were the only ones walking around all these temples/cemeteries through the woods and everything had a fresh thin powder of snow on it. I'd say it's very worth it because you won't get this kind of intimacy with nature/temples in Kyoto with all the crowds. On our way out, I don't know the name but we stopped by a tiny coffee hut run by an elderly Japanese woman who made the best cup of coffee we had in Japan. With our hearts warm, we bought some Hida beef skewers and took a bus to Shirakawa Go. A lot of places said this was very touristy and overrun by tour buses. And....it was to a certain extent in the main part of town. But for 600 yen on the other side of the suspension bridge there's an open air museum that the \"tours\" dont seem to go on, and you can leisurely walk around and enjoy this historic town at your own pace. Shirakwa Go overall was stunning! We spent around 3 hours there just walking around, visiting the varying museums, and walking up to the viewpoint. With the snow as well, it was (and I apologize for using the word so many times) magical. I don't think you need more than 3 hours here unless you're planning an overnight (which without having done, I'd recommend!). Back to Takayama we made our way straight over to Center 4 Hamburgers and had the best cheeseburgers we've had in a long time. Maybe we were just missing home, but we were in near tears eating these burgers, fries, onion rings and washing it down with beer and a coke. **Day 10: December 20 - Takayama / Kyoto** We still have the morning to spend in Takayama so we walk around the Miyagawa Morning Market, went to a few of the different Sake breweries\\* in town (they have these huge moss balls in front of them) and got a bit tipsy from our tastings. After purchasing a couple of bottles, we grabbed some Hida Beef Sushi (soooo good) and some Hida Beef Skewers (also so good!), then grabbed our luggage, said goodbye to our lovely Ryokan hosts, and made our way to the train station to head to Kyoto. Another lovely two trains later we are in Kyoto! We used Machiya Locals and stayed near Gion. Out for a quick sushi dinner and called it a night. \\* Sake Breweries are like businesses, not like beer breweries in the US that are open in the evening for drinks. These places close at 4 or 5pm so make your plans accordingly! **Day 11: December 21 - Kyoto (Chion-In, Kiyomizu, Kenninji Temple, Gion area, Toji Temple)** We had another tour guide today! She was great and wonderful and was another wedding present. (For those wondering, booking a tour guide you have previously had as a wedding present for people going to that destination is an AWESOME present.) We visited all the main sites near Higashiyama and Gion and because it was December even some of the most \"popular\" spots were not that busy in the middle of the day. We were consistently told \"oh my God. 2 weeks ago it was sooooooo beautiful\", and while we did feel like we missed out a little bit, we still had an excellent time. We really liked all the different temples with Kenninji probably leading the pack. We even saw two Makos in the Gion area! After the tour, we took the bus to Toji temple which has a flea market once a month. So cool and if you happen to be in town for it (I believe it is always on the 21st of the month?), we would highly recommend. I got a really cool vest and my wife got some excellent coin purses. For dinner we tucked into Gion Yuki and it was an excellent Izakaya experience. **Day 12: December 22 - Kyoto (Souvenir Shopping, Zen Temples, Philosophers Path, Silver Temple)** We wanted to revisit the bustling alleys outside of the Kiyomizu temple with a bit more time devoted to souvenir shopping! We ended buying all kinds of things from chopsticks to a high-end tea set (that we got shipped back to the US!), we got soaps, matcha, candy, and more. There's a very \"cool\" Starbucks that we went to as well before we got started on the sightseeing aspect of our day. We started with Nansen-In which maybe was one of our favorite temples. Just a lot of exploring which was so fun. There's a gorgeous waterfall you can catch as well. There's even a back area where nobody is that you can take a little hike up and see some more shrines. Just a great area to explore. We followed this up with Eikan-Do which despite being \"shrined out\" we still had a great time and enjoyed. We had lunch at Hinode Udon, and to this day I'm still thinking about that curry udon I ate, it was spectacular! We only waited 10 minutes but I hear the queue could take up to an hour. With our bellies full of udon we took the path of philosophy all the way to Ginkaku-Ju just as the sun was setting and it was lovely. Maybe our favorite temple so far, it was just so mossy. The temple reflecting off the water. UGH! Again we know we missed the maple leaves, but there is still so much natural beauty in December! We meandered back to our little house and took a nap since we were exhausted before heading out to the best dinner of our entire trip. We ate at a tempura place called Gion Tempura Koromo, and we did the Sake pairing. When I tell you, this meal changed my life....it's an understatement. Every bite was more beautiful than the last. The shrimp tempura was a game changer. The beef! LORD HAVE MERCY ON MY SOUL. And most importantly, the staff was so kind, taking great care to use their google translate app to tell us everything they could about our meal and Sake. 10/10 no notes. We waddled back home, drunk and happier than ever. **Day 13: December 23 - Kyoto (Fushimi Inari, Yukatas, Hotel Transfer)** We started the day off correctly by hoofing it to Fushimi Inari and hiked all the way up. It was wonderful. Seeing our breath with the woods all around us going through the Tori gates! I mean c'mon! We also don't believe in waking up at 6am to beat the crowds. We probably got there at around 9:30 and while it was crowded once you got going it was fine. It's Japan! It's a very popular world tourist destination, there are going to be people. Let that sink in and do your best to enjoy what is around you. The rest of the day was a bit of a nightmare. We had tried to find a place that sells Yukatas, and we landed on this place called Chicago as well as a store called Mimuro. We probably spent close to 4 hours trying to buy Yukatas (as we wanted some for our parents too). If I were to do it again, I would realize Yukatas/Kimonos don't need to be something you need to pickup for other people. If you want a pair for yourselves, that is ideal, but don't go to great lengths to acquire them it will just eat up your full day. We then made our second big mistake. We had wanted to stay at a \"5-star resort\" since it was our honeymoon, and we decided on the Hoshinoya Kyoto. Now I am sure people have had a great time here, but it can be very tricky to get to (you have a 2.5 hour window to catch a boat, otherwise you take a car through an incredibly narrow and frightening road), there are very few amenities once there, and you are somewhat trapped. We could not really leave to go out after we had arrived. The rooms themselves are amazing and being by the river in Arashiyama is unbeatable, but that is if you are really looking for peace and quiet and getting away from it all. If you have any desire to do anything, the Hoshinoya isn't for you. **Day 14: December 24 - Kyoto (Monkey Park 2, Arashiyama)** We caught the boat ride out of the Hoshinoya this morning (which was pleasant!), and made our way up to the monkey park. Damn, we love these monkeys! You have the ability to buy food to feed the monkeys here which was a huge draw for my wife. She had a blast feeding them apple slices and nuts. It's good to be in nature and seeing monkeys not caged in! We then just spent the rest of the day strolling through Arashiyama, enjoying the bamboo forest, temples in the area, eating lunch at a strip-mall like sushi restaurant, and waiting 45 minutes for coffee from % Arabica (the Kyoto Latte was VERY good, but it was not nearly worth the 45 minute wait). Life was good in Arashiyama, and it was nice to slow down after yesterday's hectic Yukata shopping day. Our dinner (Christmas Eve) was at the Hoshinoya. We had booked a Kaiseki dinner, and given the 5 star resort I was sure it would be delicious. It...wasn't. As I hope this post is apparent, I eat all different kinds of food, and enjoy trying most anything. The food just was very mediocre (a sin worse than being bad in my book) and for nearly $175 USD a person I wish that was not the case. Certain foods I just know were bad like their strawberry was very mushy and not at all fresh. I wouldn't dog on this place so hard if the price tag had not been so steep! **Day 15: December 25 - Kyoto/Osaka** We had our luggage sent to our hotel in Osaka (Cross Hotel), and we had the opportunity to explore Kyoto some more! We visited Nijo-jo castle and really loved the art/sliding doors/squeaky floors! Next stop, we made the mistake of thinking KFC for Christmas will be good. (It wasn't but it was definitely worth the experience). We walked around and just had a pleasant time around Nishiki market and the adjoining areas before heading to Kyoto station to catch a train to Osaka. Getting to Osaka was super easy and quick, gotta love these trains. We picked up our Osaka Amazing pass from Osaka station and then took the subway to get to the cross hotel. Cross hotel was amazing! Right next to Dotonbori, the room was spacious and nice. Great hotel! We unpacked and then headed out to grab dinner at an okonomiyaki restaurant called Chibo. It was really tasty but the best part was having the chefs cooking right in front of you and squirting mayo from quite a distance. Dotonbori is wild and it was bananas just walking around. This was the most packed we had felt in Japan yet. **Day 16: December 26 - Osaka Amazing! (Osaka Castle, Tempozan Ferris wheel, Osaka Acquarium, Tombori River Cruise)** This was an excellent Osaka day if I do say so myself. The breakfast buffet at the cross hotel is PERFECT. The exact mix of Western and Japanese style breakfast that will make anyone and everyone happy. With a good start to the day we decided to try and use our Osaka Amazing passes today. They cost 2800 Yen per person and we wanted to make sure to use them to their fullest potential. We started by making a reservation right at 10am at the Tombori river cruise for an 8:00 spot. When I got there at 10 there was already a huge queue with certain times already sold out by the time I arrived. You gotta be on top of this. Then we went to Osaka castle! There was a 30 minute wait to buy tickets, but if you had purchased an Osaka Amazing pass? You walk right in. That was almost worth the whole price of the ticket in my book! The castle and grounds are very nice. Yes it's very modern, but going to the top, walking around and seeing the exhibits, and learning the history was really cool. I even paid a few hundred yen to take a picture with a samurai helmet. My wife thought I looked very handsome (I looked dumb). We then went all the way over to Osaka harbor to check out the Tempozan Ferris Wheel. There was no wait for a regular box (there are some that are all glass that had a 15 minute wait). My wife was in a bit of a panic as she is afraid of heights, but we made it through and the views of Osaka are really nice. I don't know if it was really \"worth it\", but since it's \"free\" with a purchase of an Osaka amazing pass, I couldn't pass on it. Then to the Osaka Aquarium (which is not covered by the pass). As far as aquariums go, it was top notch. I'm not a big aquarium guy, but my wife absolutely loves them, and so it was fun to see that. And even not being a huge aquarium guy, the whale shark exhibit was something I had never seen before. They really are majestic and seem to be treated really well. All in all, it's a fantastic aquarium. We gave our credit card a beating at the gift shop. That's life. Back to the Cross hotel, we dropped off our new souvenirs before hitting up our first conveyor belt sushi restaurant, Daiki Suisan. It was awesome. Excellent, cool, delicious, something new. We had a couple beers, we were enjoying our lives, we then walked around further and deeper into Dotonbori making our way to this abandon building that had a ton of bars on the second floor. We grabbed some drinks before making our way to the Tombori River Boat onboarding and had a great time going up and down the river waving to folks left and right. With a final stop in to Don Quixote to marvel at everything, I'd say all in all, a great day! **Day 17: December 27 - Nara** Well folks. It's the final day of our trip and we went to Nara. It took us almost no time at all to get there, probably an hour. We took the JR line as we had JR passes but the Kintetsu line is closer (we didn't mind the extra time though). Kokufuji temple seemed to be going through some renovations so we didn't spend that much time there. If you're wondering \"Oh where do I go to see the deer\" like I was, don't worry. They are EVERYWHERE. And in the morning they are HUNGRY. Yes, everything you have heard is true. The deer: Dirty. Poop: Everywhere. Do they nibble at you and bite and get their dirty noses involved because they want crackers: Yes. Is it worth it: 100%. It's awesome. When else in your life are you surrounded by deer, having them bow to you like you are some cursed snow white. You can pat them on the head, give them a scratch here and there. It was so fun, but they are filthy. (We also did an extensive tick check upon going back and put all our clothes in the wash). We then hit up Todai-ji temple and Kokufuji temple. You would think we'd be tired of temples by now, and to be fair my wife kind of was, BUT once we arrived and saw the size of that Buddha we were happy we were there. Very cool (we got the museum/temple double pass) and the museum itself had some very very good Buddhist art/statues/swords. Kokufuji was nice to be in the woods, still seeing deer in and around the temple grounds. The mossy lanterns were such a nice goodbye to everything. Warning! The deer are full by 1pm! They don't want your crackers anymore and will be sitting, lazing in the sun. If you wanna feed em, feed them EARLY! We made our way back to the more civilized part of town (no deer unfortunately) and watched the mochi masters pound some mochi into submission at Nakatanido Mochi Shop. They do the show every 30 minutes and it is SHORT so just stick around, grab some mochi, and then be prepared to witness what you have seen online in real life. The mochi was really tasty, though I don't know if I'll ever be a die-hard red bean fan. I'll still eat it though! We were pooped and had to pack so we made our way back, quickly stopped by the Pokemon Mega Store in Shinbashi (because.....I needed it), and then packed up everything. Ichiran Ramen for dinner and that was that. Goodbye Osaka. Goodbye Japan **Day 18: December 28 - :(** There is a taxi stand right on Ebisubashi and we took it to KIX airport pretty early in the morning. Arigato Japan. Sayanora &lt;3"}
{"id": "0111", "text": "My family of four, which includes two sons aged 7 and 9, just got back from first-time trip to Japan that lasted 14 days. We visited in mid to late October and had an overwhelmingly positive experience. My wife and I would like to go back in the next few years, although maybe as an adult-oriented trip with similarly aged relatives. I'll offer some general tips below, then share my attempt at a brief breakdown of each day. Please excuse any typos or grammar mistakes, which I'm blaming on jetlag. GENERAL TIPS * We kept around 10,000 Yen on us at any given time and never had an issue with cash. At most, we would withdraw 20,000 Yen at the start of a given day. We exclusively used Seven Bank ATMs, usually within a 7-11. * I'd read about most do's-and-don'ts, but I somehow missed the hand towel for drying at public bathrooms. I also missed the part about many restrooms not having soap. You may want to bring a small hand sanitizer and/or hand towel for drying. * For the do's-and-don'ts that I *had* read about, I can very much confirm the scarcity of trash cans and the unwritten rule against eating and drinking on the go. Thankfully it only happened once, but our poor planning led to a hurried conbini breakfast in an unpleasant park, all to avoid eating a croissant and drinking a coffee as we walked. * The language was not a significant issue. I self-studied before we left and could handle \"tourist\" Japanese. Even so, I think many Japanese are humble about their English ability and can communicate well enough in English - although any and all effort in Japanese goes a long way. * This is maybe more for those coming from places with less robust public transit, but be mindful of the posted rules for a given carriage when travelling via train or subway. In Tokyo, Google Maps suggested a specific car number for a faster transfer. It turned out to be women-only, so we quickly moved cars. There will also be signs for priority seating for the elderly or other passengers with limited mobility. * Luggage forwarding is a godsend. Even though we only had hand luggage, we used it twice. The first was from Tokyo to Kyoto, and the last from Kyoto to Haneda. If you're hesitant, and if you happen to be an Apple user, then I suggest buying some AirTags so that you can follow the progress. * Rush hour is no joke, especially in Tokyo and especially at busier stations and on busier lines. Sometimes it's unavoidable, but do everything you can to avoid the metro during peak hours. * The Japanese people who interacted with us were very welcoming and accommodating. Many would ask us where we were from, but in a way that seemed to us to be genuine curiosity rather than anything negative. After speaking Japanese with some locals, one man in particular made it a point to come over to us and repeatedly thank us for visiting. * Coin Lockers are your friend. We used them multiple times, especially when we would do side-trips and knew we would have to return to the station after some local sightseeing. * For cellular data, we used Ubigi. Setup was a little complicated, but it worked well. I bought 10 GB of data and had 3 GB leftover. * I could keep going, but many additional items are already well-covered elsewhere in this subreddit. **Day 1 - Arrival to Haneda** We landed at HANEDA AIRPORT around 2:00 p.m. No real issues with customs. We got QR codes in advance, which the flight attendants mentioned enroute while also offering paper forms. I did not take any cash with us, so I was immediately on the lookout for a SEVEN BANK ATM. There are many around the floor after you make it through customs, including one that is immediately next to the bank of WELCOME SUICA kiosks near the exit for the Tokyo Monorail. We grabbed four for our group, including two child cards. The line at the Haneda JR office to redeem JR passes was insane, so got on the subway to check in at our hotel. We stayed at MIMARU TOKYO ASAKUSA STATION. Our room had a river view that included the Asahi building and Tokyo Skytree. This was a great place to stay, especially as a family. It felt quiet, even by Tokyo standards, and had great access to the Ginza line. Asakusa Station is nowhere near is hectic as Shinjuku or Shibuya, which is wonderful after a long day of sightseeing. After dropping our bags, we popped out around 4:30 p.m. to TOKYO STATION to redeem our JR passes and check out the Marunouchi side of the building. We got dinner from MATSUYA near the hotel and fell asleep around 8:00 p.m. **Day 2 - Nikko Daytrip** Everyone was up by 4:30 a.m., which actually worked out well for this daytrip to NIKKO and OKUNIKKO. As we would start most days in Japan, we loaded up at 7-ELEVEN with coffee and light breakfast. We arrived at Nikko Station by 7:45 and took the Tobu bus to YUDAKI FALLS, where we started our hike back down to LAKE CHUZENJI. We might have been a day or two early for peak color, but not by much. It was stunning, with Yudaki Falls the clear highlight for me. We bused from RYUZU FALLS to CHUZENJI ONSEN around noon, had a quick look at KEGON FALLS (which I found underwhelming), and then bused down to TOSHOGU SHRINE around 1:00 p.m. We stopped at LAWSON for some conbini chicken lunch, which the kids loved. Next up was TOSHUGU SHRINE, which was very impressive. I did not anticipate the 200+ steps up to Ieyasu Tokugawa's burial spot. That probably did in my legs more than the earlier hike. Due to time limits, we unfortunately missed the museum and treasures. The museum cafe had surprisingly good coffee. Our train back to Tokyo left Nikko Station at 5:15 p.m. and arrived in Asakusa around 7:00 p.m. The kids like katsu curry, so we ate at COCO ICHIBANYA. Of the chains that we tried, this was a clear favorite of mine and our sons. **Day 3 - Asakusa, Ghibli, Shibuya, Harajuku** In the first part of the morning, from around 6:30 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. we visited KAMINARIMON, NAKAMISEDORI, and SENSO-JI. The lack of crowds was great, although it cost us in terms of shops not being open. We would briefly revisit at the end of the day, both for souvenirs and dinner. We made a brief stop for coffee and waffles at FUGLEN ASAKUSA. We then headed to TOKYO STATION to buy TOICA cards. Probably the Welcome Suica would have been fine, but I didn't like then non-refundability and limited time period of those cards. The JR Central office near the Yaesu North Exit sells them at a specifically marked counter. Next up, we headed to KICHIJOJI for a 10:00 a.m. entry to the STUDIO GHIBLI MUSEUM. Our sons love these movies, especially My Neighbor Totoro. I thought the museum on the whole was small and very average. More importantly, the kids enjoyed it. The walk to the museum through INOKASHIA PARK was pleasant. Our sons stopped and played with a young Japanese boy and his father, which was heartwarming. We traveled to SHIBUYA, and went to the nearby NINTENDO STORE. Our walk took us across SHIBUYA SCRAMBLE. I'm not sure I get the appeal, as it felt like any other city crossing - admittedly on a slightly larger scale. Maybe it would've been more impressive from above. We also stopped at Soccer Shop Kamo to get a Japanese national team shirt for my oldest son. Any day that he wore this shirt, he was guaranteed to get some interest and chatter from the locals. We kept moving north through YOYOGI PARK towards MEIJI SHRINE. As we left Meiji, we exited near HARAJUKU and stopped for some crepes. By then we were pretty exhausted, so we did an abbreviated walk along OMOTESANDO to pickup the Ginza line back to Asakusa. Dinner was at a place just called KAMUKURA, just east of Nakamise. My wife and kids enjoyed ramen, while I got my fill of Gyoza. **Day 4 - Ueno, Odaiba, Rainbow Bridge, Akihabara** It was a rainy start to the day, so I had to do a quick refresh on umbrella culture. In short, buy the cheap, transparent one with a white handle for about 600 Yen from a conbini. We didn't plan on keeping it past the day and eventually left it in the hotel umbrella storage. Luckily we had already planned for museums, so we went to UENO for the TOKYO NATIONAL MUSEUM. This was excellent, and I especially enjoyed the exhibits that took you through Japan's various ages. It gave some great context for the rest of the trip. However, while our older son was able to enjoy it, our youngest had an awful time. We tried to make it up to him with a visit to SMALL WORLDS in ODAIBA during the afternoon, which both kids loved. With sunset approaching, we left Small Words and walked the north side of RAINBOW BRIDGE from the Odaiba side. We timed this perfectly, and the city views were stunning. Part for my kids and part for my own childhood, we went to AKIHABARA and specifically to SUPER POTATO. This was an incredible store with nostalgia overdrive. It was tempting to buy some older consoles, and fun to show the kids how games used to look and play. Dinner was a bit of a scramble, so let kids have their pick. Not surprisingly, they went for curry again at Coco Ichibanya. I can almost still smell it on my clothes. **Day 5 - Takayama** We took the shinkansen from Tokyo to Nagoya and lucked out on some incredible views of Mt. Fuji. In Nagoya, we transferred to the Hida line and rode it to Takayama. The ride on the Hida from Nagoya was beautiful. After arriving, we dropped our bags at our hotel. We stayed at WAT HOTEL &amp; SPA HIDA TAKAYAMA and were overall very pleased. The price was excellent, and the upstairs onsen was our first time to try out the hot springs later that night. First up was TAKAYAMA JINYA, followed by a stroll through SANNOMACHI. With some time to spare, we decided to move up our visit to HIDA NO SATO from the following morning to that afternoon. For dinner, we ate at JAKSON CURRY. The kids again ate pork curry, but my wife and I were at least able to mix it up somewhat and have Hida Beef curry. This was one of the best meals of the trip, and the entire vibe of the restaurant was almost a treat of it's own. **Day 6 - Kanazawa** We had some time in Takayama before our train for Kanazawa via Toyama left around 11 a.m., so we decided to check out the HIGASHIYAMA TRAIL. This was disappointing, especially coming off of the great experiences the day before in Takayama. My older son and I split off for a brief but enjoyable visit to the HIDA TAKAYAMA RETRO MUSEUM. Kanazawa was probably the first time we experienced more outgoing Japanese. Many would strike up conversations with us, which I struggled my way through in Japanese. As noted above, this may have had something to do with my older son wearing a Japan team shirt. We dropped bags at HOTEL FORZA KANAZAWA, which I would rate as somewhere between average and above average. Great price for a good location and decent accommodations. I failed on reserving tickets for the Ninjadera, so we gave kids the choice between the Samurai villa and Kanazawa Castle. They chose KANAZAWA CASTLE, so we made a stop there after first walking through OMICHO MARKET. Next up was KENROKUEN, which was very impressive. We ended with a short visit to the HIGASHI CHAYA district. For dinner, the adults insisted on sushi and settled on a random place back in Omicho Market and near the hotel. The staff was wonderful, even as my kids clearly struggled. We cut the evening a little short and took in the Japan vs. Tunisia match from our hotel room. It was a nice chance for everyone to catch their breath. **Day 7 - Miyajima** This was our longest travel day within our trip, as we traveled from Kanazawa to Shin-Osaka, transferred in Shin-Osaka to the shinkansen to Hiroshima Station, and then took a local line to Miyajimaguchi Station before travelling via JR Ferry to Miyajima around 1:30 p.m. We got to enjoy ekiben from that we bought in Shin-Osaka and ate on the way to Hiroshima. The comfort of the trains and the scenery made the time pass quickly and easily. We had great views of ITSUKUSHIMA SHRINE at high tide on the ferry ride. My wife's ekiben, the sampler box of regional items along the Tokaido Shinkansen route, definitely did not agree with her. After an impromptu pit stop, we dropped off bags at our ryokan on Miyajima. Specifically, we stayed at IWASO. Next up, we took the ropeway up to Mt. Misen and hiked our way to the MT. MISEN OBSERVATORY before it closed. Even from the ropeway station, the trek up to the observatory was longer than expected. Once there, the view was wonderful. The hike down the mountain to our ryokan was around an hour, and not easy. The first time you hear the deer on Miyajima, it can be startling! Dinner at the ryokan was certainly an experience unto itself. The only item I struggled with was the raw oyster. After dinner, we took a brief stroll to walk out to Itsukushima Shrine during low tide and at sunset. **Day 8 - Hiroshima, Himeji, and Kyoto Check-In** We left Miyajima for Hiroshima and headed first towards the A-BOMB DOME, PEACE PARK, and PEACE MUSEUM to start the day. As you would expect, these places are both disturbing and important. The kids seemed to handle it okay. On our way out of the Peace Park and towards OKONOMIMURA, a local TV channel (Hiroshima Home Terebi) stopped us and asked about our trip. They wanted to learn more about what brought visitors to Hiroshima, with a goal of convincing day-trippers to stay and do more in Hiroshima beyond what we had just done. They joined us on our walk to Okonomimura, and the anchor, a nice woman named Nao, joined us for some Hiroshima-style Okonomiyaki. The TV stuff delayed our plans a bit, but we still had enough time for a brief stop at HIMEJI CASTLE before it closed. This was easily the favorite in our group of all the castles that we visited. We left Himeji Station around 5:30 and checked into our next hotel in Kyoto. We stayed at CROSS HOTEL KYOTO in Kawaramachi. The hotel was very nice, although we were generally left with a slightly negative view of Kyoto by the end of our stay. If we had it to do over, I would have cut a day here and spent it elsewhere. Our chief complaint would probably be the transit system in Kyoto and the crowds, two issues that probably played off of one another. For dinner, we ate at KUSHIYAKI MANTEN in Pontocho. They had some great beef dishes and good beer from a local craft brewer in Kyoto. **Day 9 - Fushimi Inari, Nara, and Osaka** To avoid crowds, we got an early start at Fushimi Inari. Not long after we entered, an older local man named Katsu kindly offered to guide us around the lower area for about an hour. He has grandsons of his own, seemed proud of the area, and enjoyed practicing English with my wife and sons. We especially liked the bamboo grove, which Katsu-san proudly (and rightly) said was better than Arashiyama. After thanking and saying goodbye to Katsu-san, we hiked up to the top. This was very forgettable and probably something we would've cut or certainly shortened. Crowds here were unbearable by 9:00. Next up, we took the Nara line from Inari Station to visit NARA. We went by KOFUKU-JI on the way to the park. Walking through the park was nice, and the deer were fun, but bordered on being overly aggressive. We had a nice walk through the park. Based on our earlier experience with our youngest son at the Tokyo National Museum, we skipped the museum in Nara. We did stop at TODAIJI, and I'm glad we went inside to see the massive Buddha. We finished the day with a late afternoon and evening in Osaka. With a light rain hitting, we stopped in Namba and grabbed some takoyaki from a street vendor. For dinner, we ate Osaka-style okonomiyaki at AJINOYA HONTEN. After that, we did a brief walk around DOTONBORI and AMERIKAMURA. There was a heavy police presence in Dotonbori that night, and we couldn't work out the reason. Probably we would've been fine, but we cut things short and headed back to Kyoto mid-evening. **Day 10 - East Kyoto and Kinkakuji** This was the day that probably ruined Kyoto for us. We started with a quick walk through to the KYOTO IMPERIAL PALACE before heading over to GINKAKUJI. From there, we walked part of the PHILOSOPHER'S PATH, which honestly seems like a dud any time of year other than during cherry blossom season. We were at the point of shrine and temple overload, and were growing frustrated with Kyoto's buses and crowds, so we skipped some spots and went straight to KIYOMIZUDERA. The walk from the bus stop up to Kiyomizudera was awful due to crowds, although it was very scenic once we made it there. With some unexpected time left at the end of our afternoon, we decided to tick off KINKAKUJI. This building was incredible, especially with the late afternoon light hitting one side of it. By then, we were done with sightseeing and heading back towards our hotel. We had one of the best meals of our trip that night after I was able to convince the group to try shabu shabu. After a bit of a wait, maybe 30 to 45 minutes, we had dinner at GINSUI. Words cannot do justice to the food at this place. **Day 11 - Arashiyama, Monkey Park, and Jidai Matsuri** We debated whether to bother with ARASHIYAMA BAMBOO GROVE, but felt like we should regret going rather than regret not going. In the end, we found this bamboo grove to be overcrowded and not as good as the one at Fushimi Inari. If anything, the walk along the Katsura River towards the Togetsu-Kyo bridge to be more pleasant. At our kids' request, we added a stop at the MONKEY PARK IWATAYAMA. From the entrance, this was a steep walk that lasted about 20 minutes. Not for the faint of heart. By then, the JIDAI MATSURI or Festival of the Ages was staring. We caught the festival path from around 1:00 p.m. watched most of the two-hour procession. On our way to the festival, we got some great coffee at the back of a car park from a place called WEEKENDERS COFFEE TOMINOKOJI. Everyone was due for a recharge, so we rested up for a bit at the hotel. Prioritize convenience over most anything else, we again ate at KUSHIYAKI MANTEN. Our younger son had a second and more serious meltdown this night, but we made it through. **Day 12 - Hakone** We were happy to leave Kyoto and excited for our second ryokan stay of the trip at GORA HANOUGI. It was a wonderful ryokan, clearly a level above Iwaso in Miyajima - which was still very nice. I cannot describe the level of service and attention to detail that comes with a ryokan stay. At least at this place, the entire staff came out to greet us and bow at our arrival. On the way in, we took the bus to AMAZAKE CHAYA. I felt like my blood had turned green by the time we left the place, but the atmosophere inside was charming. Unfortunately, there was extensive scaffolding on the exterior when we visited. From there, we hiked about half an hour or so along the OLD TOKAIDO ROAD to pickup the pirate ship in MOTOHAKONE. We lucked out on some great whether and enjoyed some great views of Mt. Fuji during the ride across the lake and along the ropeway ride. We stopped at OWAKUDANI STATION for some very touristy black eggs before carrying on to our ryokan. After our dinner at the ryokan, everyone took turns enjoying the private, open-air bath that came with our room. It was just the shot in the arm that we needed after Kyoto. **Day 13 - Kamakura and Shinjuku** We considered spending time in Gora, but passed in favor of more time in Kamakura and Tokyo. We visited HASADERA, with great views of Kamakura and its beach, and KOTOKU-IN, with another impressive Buddha statute. We took the chance to walk on the beach for a bit before heading to Tokyo. For this final night in Japan, we stayed a the MIMARU TOKYO SHINJUKU WEST. It was fine enough, but not as nice as the one in Asakusa and considerably noisier. After checking in at the hotel around 4:00 p.m., we went to the TOKYO GOVERNMENT BUILDING to see the city from above. It was clear enough to see Fuji as the sun was starting to set, although the views probably got better just as we left. We then took in Shinjuku and Kabukicho by night, although admittedly early evening rather later. At the kids' strong request, we ate Coco Ichibanya in Kabukicho. With the release of the new Super Mario game and to get our younger son some missed souvenirs, we made another stop at the Shibuya Nintendo Store. They were also asking for crepes, so we again stopped in Harajuku before returning to the hotel. **Day 14 - Shinjuku and Shinagawa; Depart Haneda** I bungled the planning on this last day, as I didn't account for the fact that SHINJUKU GYOEN doesn't normally open until 9 a.m. We lost a bit of time waiting for it to open, but it was beautiful once we made it inside. Our oldest has a strong interest in sports, so we opted for the self-guided tour of the JAPAN NATIONAL STADIUM. It was a little expensive for what it was, but we liked it overall. After that, we had enough time for a peek at the outside of the Imperia Villa or Tokyo Tower. Because of track delays for a \"person on the track\", we ended up deciding on TOKYO TOWER. From there, we made one final stop at PIGMENT TOKYO for souvenirs, an art supply store near Shinagawa. We took the Tokyo Monorail to Haneda Airport, where we caught our flight home around 4:00 p.m. &amp;#x200B;"}
{"id": "0112", "text": "My husband and I just got back from our first trip to Japan, 12 days in Tokyo, Nagano, Kiso Valley, Kyoto, and Hakone. We focused on urban exploring, onsen, villages, Studio Ghibli, and vegan and gluten free food. This subreddit was immensely helpful for my trip planning, so hopefully this report will be useful for folks who share the same interests or diet. I also used Atlas Obscura to find some out-of-the-way spots. ***Itinerary*** **Day 1** \\- Landed at Narita at 4pm, made it to **Belken Hotel Tokyo**, got snacks from conbini and crashed out. Highly recommended Belken; although the room was small it was by far the most comfortable bed we had on the whole trip. **Day 2** \\- Walked through **Kichijoji** and **Inokashira Park** to get to the **Ghibli Museum**. Went to Shinjuku and walked through **Omoide Yokocho** but it started pouring, so ate lunch at **Wired Bonbon** then headed back to the hotel. Napped, then explored Tokyo Station area and had **T's Tantan** for dinner **Day 3** \\- Watched the show at the **Giant Ghibli Clock**, then saw a performance at the **Kabuki Theater**. The kabuki was probably the most authentic cultural experience we had during the trip, and also one of the strangest. Afterwards we had lunch at **Ain Soph** and walked around Ginza, went to **Tir Na Nog** bar- highly recommend for anyone who likes unusual spaces, feels like you've walked into a fairytale. We also went to **Ginza Tsuboyaki-imo**, a little store that only sells Japanese sweet potatoes roasted in traditional clay ovens. Then we headed over to Akihabara, went to **Mandrake Complex** and **Maidreamin Cafe**. The Maid Cafe was also a uniquely bizarre cultural experience. We capped off our jampacked day by checking into the capsule hotel **Nine Hours Akasaka**, and getting dinner at **Gluten Free T's.** **Day 4** \\- Checked out of Nine Hours Akasaka (which was a fun experience but had some issues with the hotel), into **Kin Ueno Hotel** (nothing special, fine for the price). Walked around **Asakusa**, went to **Senso-ji**, **Hikan Inari-jinja shrine**, and **Matsuchiyama Shoden shrine** (my husband loves daikon so he wanted to see the daikon-themed temple). Asakusa had some of the best souvenirs that we found. It was so touristy that I expected it would be overpriced and low quality, but there were some purses, pottery, etc. that were nicer than what I saw on the rest of the trip. Then we went to **Yanaka Ginza** and bought all the cat-themed items, then went to **Tofu Room Dy's** for lunch. Then we headed to Ikebukuro, where I had a mini-breakdown from the combination of heat, crowds, exhaustion, and trying to find our way through a giant metro station that's also a giant mall. Once I recovered, we went to the **Sky Circus** observation deck (fantastic, though crowded, and didn't require prior reservations), and **Donguri Kyowakoku** Ghibli store. We tried to go to the **Swallowtail** butler cafe but couldn't get in without a reservation. Went to **Vegan Bistro Jangara** for dinner, which was among the best food we had on the trip. We were planning to head to Shimokitazawa afterwards to try to find a show, but were too exhausted. **Day 5** \\- Activated our JR pass and took the shinkansen to Nagano. Ate soba at **Shinshu Juwari Soba**, a gluten-free soba shop just outside the station. Then we continued our journey to Shibu Onsen, where we stayed at **Kanaguya**. This was the highlight of our whole trip. Kanaguya is reputedly the inspiration for the facade of the onsen in Spirited Away, and it was indeed a magical place. It's both majestic and funky, and we really enjoyed exploring its meandering hallways and eight different onsen. We also got a key to the nine public onsen throughout the little village, and bought a souvenir towel to stamp at each one. The village is extremely picturesque and we loved walking around in our yukatas and getas. The only downside was all of the onsen were extremely hot, like \\~115 to 120 degrees. They had cold taps so at some of them I was able to get in by turning on the cold full blast and sitting directly under it. After our hot tub exploring, we returned to Kanaguya for an absolute kaiseki feast - they not only managed to accommodate vegan and gluten free, they served us the tastiest and most beautiful 20-course meal we could have dreamed of. **Day 6** \\- We took the train + bus to **Magome Chaya** in the Kiso Valley, dropped our luggage and ate some absolutely delicious gohei-mochi and rice crackers, then took a bus to Tsumago. We had intended to walk back from Tsumago to Magome on the Nakasendo Trail but messed up the stops/timing and only got to walk a small portion of it. It was so incredible that we're adding walking the full Nakasendo Trail to our bucket list. Had dinner at **Haginoya**. **Day 7** \\- Went to the post office to have our luggage sent ahead to Kyoto, then took the train to Nagoya to go to **Ghibli Park**. My husband is a Ghibli fanatic so he loved it. As someone who enjoys Miyazaki movies but isn't a die-hard fan, I'm not sure it would have been worth the time + effort + crowds. That took most of the day, then we took the train to Kyoto, checked into **BanA Alter Museum** in Kyoto (enjoyed staying in an art room), got dinner at **Engine Ramen**, walked around **Kiyamachi-dori** a bit, then crashed. **Day 8** \\- Went to the monthly flea market at **Todai-ji**, which was a wonderful experience. Bought some tea, jewelry, fabric, and snacks. Stopped by the **Witch's House** on the walk back to the bus, which I thought would be a fun quirky store but turned out to be an extremely bizarre hoarding situation that felt like walking into a horror movie. Thankfully I made it out alive, but wouldn't recommend. Walked around **Gion**, ate some **mitarashi dango mochi**, went to **Yasaka-jinja, Kodai-ji**, and **Kennin-ji**, then checked into **Laon Inn Gion Nawate** (fine, given the low cost). Had dinner at **Gion Soy Milk Ramen Uno Yokiko**, which was worth the long wait for the amazing gf gyoza and dumplings. **Day 9** \\- Went to **Arashiyama**. Walked through the **Bamboo Forest** en route to **Jojakk-ji Temple** and **Adashino Nenbutsu-ji Temple**, then headed back to **Tenryuji Temple Shigetsu** for shojin ryori. The walk through the temples and the little neighborhoods in Arashiyama was one of my favorite parts of Kyoto, and I was pleasantly surprised by the bamboo forest since people on this sub say it's so overrated. It was crowded but not unbearably so, plus it was free and on the way to other sites we wanted to see. Afterwards we walked across the bridge to the **Monkey Park**, which was absolutely worth the steep climb. On the way home, stopped at **Taishogun Shopping Street** and saw a few monsters, though most of the shops were closed, then got vegan gf okonomiyaki at **Miyabi**. **Day 10** \\- Walked around **Nishiki Market** first thing in the morning. I had read online that it's open 9 to 6 and best to get there early, but most of the stores were still closed when I was there and didn't open till \\~11. Then took the train to **Nara**. I was unpleasantly surprised by how difficult it was to navigate. The number of different train lines to choose from on Google Maps was very confusing, especially because most of them required two tickets, one to enter the station and a second for the train itself. It was also more expensive than I expected, perhaps because I didn't do enough research into the best train. Nevertheless, we made it and were able to see the bowing deer, the utterly majestic Buddha at **Todai-ji**, and the mochi pounding at **Nakatanidou**. On the way back, went to **Fushimi Inari**, then to a reservation at the incredible **AWOMB**. **Day 11** \\- Took the train to Hakone, got sushi at **Hakone Kappei**, then went to the **Hakone Open-Air Museum**, which was one of the cooler museums I've been to. Then we took the bus and checked into Hakone Onsen Yuyado, where we got to reserve time both in the evening and in the morning in their nice onsen. **Day 12** \\- Went to **Hakone Yuryo**, which was heavenly. Opted for the public baths so that we could get the variety of the six different tubs (which were all a more reasonable temperature than the Shibu onsen), and also got to experience the very intense Loyly Service - a Finnish spa ritual that involves fanning aromatic hot steam around the sauna. Then, sadly, we took the train to Narita for a 6:30pm flight home. ***Restaurants*** We found it surprisingly easy to be vegan + gluten free\\* as long as we planned out restaurants in advance, and had some of the best food of our lives. We tried a couple of times to wing it and find options at random restaurants but didn't have success. I think if we were just vegan or just gluten free it would have been doable, but both required a bit of Happy Cow research and marking restaurants in advance on Google Maps. There were more vegan restaurants than we could possibly fit into our trip. \\*We're not strict about gluten cross contamination when traveling, and we didn't interrogate waiters about dashi or bonito when at restaurants or ryokans that made special accommodations for us. * **Conbinis** \\- EDIT: I've learned from looking at vegan websites that a lot of the products we thought were vegan just based on Google Translating the ingredient labels were not, because dashi &amp; bonito are not always directly labeled as such. There are still ume onigiri, natto rolls, mochi, nuts, smoothies, etc. that are fully vegan, and apparently Natural Lawsons has better vegan options. ***Google Translate camera function was a lifesaver for reading ingredient lists.*** * **Wired Bonbon** \\- Delicious curry, and they can make any of their decadent parfaits gluten free. It's on an upper floor of the mall, hard to find if you don't know exactly where you're going. It was convenient since we were in the area, not sure if I would go out of my way for it. * **T's Tantan** \\- Can swap out rice noodles, but there was still gluten in most of their ramens. The gf one was tasty, but not mind blowing. * **Ain Soph** \\- The Ginza location seemed to be entirely gluten free, which was a pleasant surprise. The pancakes were lovely and fluffy, and the bento was tasty. * **Gluten Free T's** \\- The dumplings and ramen were meh, the kakiage and vegetable spring rolls were amazing. I'd recommend making reservations, we got lucky and snagged the last two counter seats but it was packed. * **Tofu Room Dy's** \\- We had to walk here after not being able to find anything to eat in Yanaka Ginza, but we were very glad we did. The owner (Dy) is so kind and charming, very passionate about Peanuts (the comic) and tofu. The meal plate was delicious, especially the yuba. It's a teeny tiny restaurant so we had to wait a long time for our table and the food. * **Vegan Bistro Jangara** \\- One of the best meals of the trip. Both soups were fantastic, and the grilled soy meat had a rich charred flavor that I haven't experienced in any other vegan meats. * **Shinshu Juwari Soba** (Nagano) - It was fun to be able to try an authentic local soba restaurant. For folks who are gluten free but not vegan, they also have tempura and soup. * **Kanaguya** (ryokan in Shibu Onsen) - This was the highlight of the trip. They specially prepared a spectacular 20 course dinner that was vegan and gluten free. * **Haginoya** (Magome) - It was hard to live up to Kanaguya, but they were very kind and accommodating, and the food was tasty and beautiful. As far as we could tell, they were the only restaurant in Magome open at night and willing to make a vegan + gf meal. * **Engine Ramen** (Kyoto) - Delicious. Very crowded, had to wait about 15 min for a single seat at the counter, they were saying up to a 90 min wait for larger parties. * **Gion Soy Milk Ramen Uno Yokiko** \\- One of the best meals we had on the trip. Tiny place with an extremely long wait, but it was absolutely worth it, especially for the dumplings which had an authentic texture and flavor that I didn't think I'd ever be able to find vegan + gf. * **Tenryuji Temple Shigetsu** \\- shojin ryori. A great meal in a lovely and historic location, very different experience being seated at tiny tables in a giant hall. We didn't have any other shojin ryori so I can't say whether this was better than other temples in Kyoto; there are a lot to choose from. We made a reservation but it turned out not to be necessary, there were lots of spots available. * **Miyabi** \\- This was a hole in the wall that seemed to be mostly locals rather than tourists, but they have a vegan menu. As far as I can tell, this is the only place that offers vegan + gf okonomiyaki. I'm not 100% positive it was gluten free, but the menu seemed to indicate that it was, and it didn't seem glutinous at all. The texture was very different than normal okonomiyaki, but the flavors and sauces were delicious, and she even brought the package out to show us that they're using vegan mayo. They grill in the middle of the table, which was fun. * **AWOMB** \\- This was the most expensive meal we had on the trip, but it was absolutely worth it (and still extremely reasonable with the exchange rate, much cheaper than a fancy meal in the US). The restaurant space itself and the presentation of the food were elevated to an art form, they serve incredible combinations of complex flavors, and it's fun to make custom hand rolls. Reservations are required. Because we couldn't understand most of what the waiter was saying, we realized too late that additional desserts can only be ordered within the first 30 minutes. That was ok though, because the set meal comes with a dessert and we were completely full by the end. * **Hakone Kappei** \\- No frills vegan sushi (inari and veggie rolls), very tasty and convenient to the Hakone Open Air Museum ***Honorable mention to places we researched but didn't get to try*** * **ZIRAEL Vegan Restaurant** in Kyoto can make vegan + gf pierogis and dumplings if you contact them a few days in advance! * **CHOICE Restaurant** in Kyoto, fully vegan + gf * **Hale** in Kyoto looked great but we couldn't make it work with their limited hours * **Nukafuku** in Hakone has vegan + gf donuts! **Lessons Learned** * Our friends had given us ICOCA cards so we didn't get any at the airport, but it turned out that they didn't work and we didn't have the energy/time to find a place to buy them in Tokyo. It was definitely a pain to have to make sure we had cash for tickets and to wait in line for machines, but it was doable. * The Tokyo Metro Pass was an excellent value * We used Ubigi e-sim and it worked very well. Didn't even use half of the 10 gigs of data * It was critical to make sure we brought an umbrella and a power bank with us when we left our hotel every morning. * Having a little bag for trash was also helpful. I just used the coin pouch that's built into my wallet for coins, it wasn't as overwhelming of an amount as I was expecting based on this sub. My partner eventually bought a small cloth for wiping off perspiration/humidity. * We bought a JR pass because the calculation sites said it was worth it, but I didn't do enough research to use it to its fullest extent for the non-Shinkansen portions of the trip, so I'm not entirely sure if it paid for itself. But I also probably wouldn't have had the energy to research the most cost-efficient options if we hadn't had it, and it was easier than having to buy tickets, so I don't regret it. * We definitely overdid our itinerary, and my partner got sick by the end because we were pushing ourselves so hard. But there's so much to see in so little time that I'm not sure what I would do differently. * The culture shock I felt was mostly shock that a country could be so clean, safe, friendly, and efficient. It made it depressing to come back to the US, and as many people on this sub have said, I'm already daydreaming about our next trip."}
{"id": "0113", "text": "Just got back from a 10-day vacation in Tokyo this August with a party size of 3. One of us had been to Japan before but it was basically the first time for the other two. Were all big anime fans so that was initially the focus of the trip but we found plenty more to do in Tokyo and surroundings than just that, which filled out our itinerary nicely. **Trip Timing:** We had mixed feelings about going in summer but it turned out OK since we were all used to the weather in Southeast Asia. We just applied sunscreen regularly and took well-spaced breaks in the shade and it worked out. We made sure to rehydrate not just with water but with electrolytes/food too. That being said, it also rained a couple days (contradicting the weather report sometimes) so I would recommend packing a small umbrella or a raincoat at all times just in case. This trip came right before the nuclear wastewater release debacle too so were glad we didnt have to take that into account. Also narrowly avoided the typhoon earlier this month too. We were affected by the IC card shortage but thanks to the tips on this subreddit we were able to secure a PASMO Passport right after landing in Narita which we used for the remainder of the trip. **Accommodation:** We stayed in Hotel MONday Asakusabashi which is just south of Asakusa, connected to the Asakusa and the Chuo-Sobu Line (a 5-minute walk away). The hotel was on the cheaper side and were able to accommodate 3 people in one room which would be difficult to find in a central location. We had no complaints about the hotel it was simple and suited our needs (coin-operated laundry and dryer for all the summer clothes we were sweating in). Asakusabashi is only one station away from Akihabara and a 10-minute walk from Asakusa proper. The trade-off was that we had to get to one of the central stations (Shinjuku mainly) to make transfers to outside Tokyo. **Language:** The vast majority of our trip, we were able make do with simple English and key Japanese phrases. So many of the locals can understand English and can respond in kind, no matter their age. For the remaining interactions, pulling out Google Translate or a PockeTalk helped us get through. One of us had taken lessons before and it really helped on listening to replies. **Itinerary:** *DAY 1* * Arrived at Narita Airport in the morning, got hold of our SIM cards (none of our phones support e-SIMs) and PASMO Passports at the subway ticket hall * Took the Narita Skyliner (pre-booked but there were a lot of empty seats) to Asakusabashi. The subway route was Narita Terminal 1 &gt; Nippori &gt; Akihabara &gt; Asakusabashi. Was a bit rough wheeling our luggage around the interchanges, so would consider luggage forwarding in the future. * Check-in wasnt until 3PM so we went to the nearby Dandelion Caf for some chocolate treats. * Walked north to Asakusa and Sensoji Temple. Highlights we stopped by: Japan Percussion Center and Miyamoto-Unosuke Drum Museum. * Walked up the shaded shopping street towards Nakamise-dori, lots of souvenirs and traditional clothing on sale * Nakamise-dori and Sensoji Temple * Checked in to the hotel and then had lunch at Ayam-ya Ramen * Went to a live house (courtesy of the live music in Japan post on this subreddit) called Knuttel House to see a freeform jazz gig by the Kazuo Imai Quartet *DAY 2* * Had Suki-ya for breakfast * Made our way to Jimbocho to browse antique bookstores and picturebooks * Ochanomizu for guitar and music accessories * Akihabara! We went through the Onoden building for the COSPA store, Akihabara Gamers, animate, and Melonbooks. Paid a visit to ms pop life store for a bit of an adventure. * Made our way back to the hotel and saw a local shrine was having some kind of celebration with all the neighbourhood families. Stayed and watched a bit but couldnt figure out what the occasion was. * Had dinner at Asada, a nice soba place near the hotel. *DAY 3* * Target-1 Shooting Range in Shinjuku, paid for an hour and got to try airsoft pistols, rifles, and sniper rifles in their indoor range. * Isetan Shinjuku, the food hall was amazing and must-go for desserts. The Art Gallery was free and nice to look at too. * Tempura for lunch. * Kinokuniya Honten building (more books) but also had an interesting gemstone/fossils shop * Alpen Shinjuku for outdoor/camping gear * Sekaido Shinjuku for stationery and art goods (we all got mechanical pencils here) * Hololive pop-up store at the next-door Marui Annex mall * Dinner at Freshness Burger *DAY 4* * We hiked Mt Nokogiri in Chiba! We were astounded at the amount of insects and wildlife during the hike. * We woke early to get to the Tokyo Wan Ferry Port in Yokohama by 9AM, and took the ferry across Tokyo Bay with great views. * Arrived at Kanaya Ferry Port on the Chiba side and went right ahead to hike up the mountain. Theres a cable car/ropeway available if hiking seems too strenuous. It will take you right up to the summit park where you can see the largest seated Buddha statue in the world, other religious sites, and parts of the old mountain quarry. * Id recommend a good level of fitness to hike up instead of taking the ropeway, but if you are able to make Id recommend going to the summit where the best views of the peninsula can be seen. * We took the Sharikimichi walking trail up and took the wrong turn but it worked out in the end after doubling back. * The Kanaya port town was very quaint as well and really had the 'coastal town' vibe that you'd imagine on a postcard or something. * Reversed our trip and made it back to Pizza Buono Buono near the hotel for a nice pizza dinner. *DAY 5* * Tsukiji Market for sushi and sashimi, we had a good experience at Tekkaya for their tuna kaisendon * Went up and down Ginza which was rather high-end. Would recommend having a look at the GU store which carries similar types of clothing to Uniqlo but at a cheaper price point. * Delicious wagyu beef sukiyaki at Imahan Honten, Ningyocho branch both our first-timers had a religious experience with that * Walked along the Sumida River at night near the hotel *DAY 6* * Day trip to Enoshima for some fun in the sun * Swam at the beach and went up to the Enoshima and Yasaka shrines * Enoshima Sea Candle for awesome views, almost got our food swiped by hawks * Tried out Shirasu-don at Enoshima Koya * Stayed til 7PM to see the lantern festival where they light up all the streets with lanterns, very festive *DAY 7* * Spent this day revisiting Akihabaras Amiami store and Yodobashi Camera * Tower Records Shibuya - floors and floors of CDs! All genres were covered and we came out with a lot of albums you couldn't find on Youtube, Spotify etc. * Seafood Bar Ermitage in Yoyogi for a delicious salmon katsu set meal *DAY 8* * Unagi-don at Nakaya, Asakusabashi * Went to Edogawa for the Shunkaen Bonsai Museum. They were filming for TV during our visit but we were greeted by the bonsai master's apprentices who have come from across the world to study under him - amazing dedication. * Revisited Shibuya for table tennis (TT Kokusai) and guitar gear (Ikebe) * Paid a visit to MEGA Don Quijote, Shibuya, for all the souvenir snacks/gifts * Roppongi Hills mall. They had a burger grand prix going on which was fun to participate in. *DAY 9* * Revisited Sensoji temple. We bought a haori at Tansu-ya. * Had one of the best chicken karaage ever at a stall called run by a husband/wife team, very cute * Tokyo Station for ekiben and soup curry * At night, went out to the National Astronomical Observatory of Japan for a stargazing tour of the stars Albireo, Saturn, and the Summer Triangle constellation. Its in the Mitaka suburbs which had much less light pollution than anywhere in the main city. While it was all in Japanese it was still enjoyable. We had to pre-book these a week ahead and win the ticket raffle to get spots. *DAY 10* * Went to Shinjukus Kabukicho Tower which, compared to the days prior, we werent a big fan of. It felt expensive and more commercial with all the bright lights and signs going on. * Checked out the Yosakoi Festival 2023 in Harajuku which was an exciting series of dance performances by both amateur and professional troupes in full costume. We particularly liked the university student teams and another team that seemed to comprise of izakaya staff! * Down the street there was also a dance parade going on as part of the same event which was fun to watch as well. * Attempted an escape room at Tokyo Mystery Circus (admittedly quite difficult and we couldnt complete the room within the time limit given) * Ended the day with a visit to a public bathhouse near the hotel. *DAY 11* * Flew home but not before picking up some more snack souvenirs at the airport. **Random Tips from Our Trip:** * Google Maps is accurate probably around 80% of the time. We found it useful to verify the routes by asking station staff or on the Hyperdia website to be extra sure, especially when there are a number of interchanges on the route. Sometimes Google will say your train route will 'change' to another line which you can't trust right away. Make sure to check the station the train is bound for and whether they skip stations on the way (Limited, or Express trains) or stop at each one (Local). * Bring a plastic bag with you wherever you go as you never know where the next trash can will be. We stuffed all our trash in the plastic bag until we came across one. * Learning basic Japanese phrases and counting numbers (e.g. when placing orders or listening to someone tell you directions) was really helpful. There are a lot of resources out there on Youtube or otherwise these days. Same with Japanese etiquette like queuing and following the flow of foot traffic. * Google Translates camera function worked wonders for translating signs. * Whatever dates for your trip are, do the research and keep an eye out for temporary events that may be happening during that time as we found those to be some of the most memorable experiences. For this we had the hotel TV turned on at all times, checked online, and looked out for posters in the subways/trains. * Most stores do accept credit card but its still very useful to have cash on you for things like vending machines or street vendors. You can even use your IC card for many purchases if you have enough credit loaded onto them. * Get a good pair of walking shoes and break them in before the trip! Most folks itineraries will include a good amount of walking so its also a good idea to raise your fitness level before flying if youre not used to it. We averaged 20-25k steps a day. * If you bought a Skyliner ticket online you will need to go to the Keisei Info Center to get an actual ticket issued. Also, if you are transferring to a JR station you need to pass through the ticket gates with BOTH your IC Card and Skyliner ticket! The signs showing this were not well-displayed. * If you can pre-book something, do it! Queues for anything can get very long indeed and you will find wait times can reach into the hours. If you need help booking, we found it helpful to ask our hotel reception to do the booking for us in Japanese. * Dont feel shy to ask for help, but dont be overly demanding either. We found Japanese hospitality to be one of the best experiences as they will go out of their way to help you. We found ourselves saying arigatou a lot! * If you have not yet tried any wagyu beef yet, we highly recommend it! * There will likely be something that catches your eye that isnt part of your itinerary so make sure you leave plenty of time between each item on your schedule to go take a look. * Try to group your activities by location so you dont spend time on traveling between locations too much in one day. * Dont feel pressured to address everything on your itinerary we missed out on quite a few and its only given us more reason to come back in the future!"}
{"id": "0114", "text": "Hey everyone, just got back from my first Trip to Japan!! Japanese culture has influenced me my whole life (DBZ, Final Fantasy, Persona) so it has always been a dream to go and experience the place firsthand. This was a family trip that me, my sister, and parents went on. It was planned rather quickly in 6 weeks (Started planning end of May, and went on 8/13), but despite that, we were able to fit a lot into the schedule and have a great time. **Pre-trip:** We bought 4 JR passes and got a voucher beforehand, as well as converted some USD to yen to spend. We didnt book anything as we wanted to play it by ear once we landed as all the guides and articles had so many things to do, that it was overwhelming, to create a day-by-day itinerary. We did book a guided tour for Kyoto and Osaka since we only planned one full day at these places. Most hotels were booked, but we found a great one in Shinjuku near the train station (Hotel Century Southern Tower) and then Hotel Okura in Kyoto. We had to book two rooms for each stay. We booked Century Southern Tower again for our last night as we were leaving from HND airport. **Day 0 Tokyo Shinjuku** Our flight to Tokyo was a direct 13-hour flight from DC. The flight was light, probably because Typhoon Lan the day we were traveling. This provided an opportunity to upgrade to first class for 800 USD, and I jumped on it (Initially first class was over 12,000 USD). The flight had no delays, and it was smooth sailing, if you can fly first class on long trips 100% take it. We landed at 4 p.m. on Monday in Japan at HND. Customs was smooth, we just handed over the paperwork they gave us on the plane (didnt use a QR code). We had pre-booked transport to our hotel, as we didnt want to fuss around figuring out the train or anything right after a long flight. Once we checked in to the hotel and rested a bit I booked some activities for us to do during our stay. I booked Shibuya Sky for Tuesday at 12:20 p.m. through the Klook app, and Team Lab Planets for Wednesday at 8 p.m. (everything else was sold out, maybe because of Elon?) through their website. Ok finally, we went out to explore Shinjuku. We first tried to go get our JR voucher, but got lost in Shinjuku station, and said well try again tomorrow. We then went towards the Godzilla statue (15 min walk from the hotel) and were amazed by just the sheer number of lights and people. The walkable areas were just amazing with shops and energy everywhere. It was also so clean, and oddly quiet away from the main areas. We then went to check out the brand-new Tokyo Kabukicho Tower. It was cool to explore the arcade and see the activations in the area. We stopped by the food hall to grab some ramen for dinner. It was confusing to order at the food hall, as it was not clear which restaurant we were ordering from. We ended up getting two different orders of ramen (they said one was sold out, but then it came). They initially gave us the bill with LINE Pay, but that didnt work on my phone, so ended up using our Yen. The ramen was great, we got a side order of some chicken on a stick and potstickers that were just ok. After walking around a bit, we headed back to the hotel to call it a night. **Day 1 Tokyo Shibuya** Ok, our first full day! We started off with the hotel buffet which had eggs, rice, fish, and a whole host of options. We then went to Shinjuku station and were able to find the right terminal to exchange our vouchers for the JR pass. We booked our round-trip train to Kyoto for Friday and Sunday. We then used Google Maps to help navigate us to Shibuya, which was a straight shot on the Yamanote line. Very easy to navigate with Google Maps, despite the sheer size of the station. Once in Shibuya we went straight for the crossing, It wasnt as packed as I thought but we were they early (10 am). We went to the 109 building, the Hachicko statue, and then walked to Yoyogi Park. We walked back to Shibuya Sky for our 12:20 p.m. reservation. It was great to see how big Tokyo was and engage with all the activations in the area. Next up we went to do some shopping at the Nintendo Store, Pokmon Store, and Mega Donk. We grabbed a quick snack at 7-11 (they are everywhere!!). We were a bit tired of all the walking not to mention the blistering heat, so we called an Uber to take us to Meiji Shrine. There was a train right next to the shrine, so we took it back to our hotel to rest up. For dinner we wanted to try one of the convey belt sushi spots, We were able to find one not too far from us and load up on plates. I enjoyed the fatty rolls but the sushi was a bit bland compared to what Im used to at American sushi restaurants as it was just rice and fish. We ended up going to a nearby Korean BBQ spot as my parents didnt like sushi and got some wagyu beef and garlic pork belly. There was a group next to us and it honestly felt like we were in one of those lifestyle anime with lots of dozo and Kanpai being said. We then walked to the Golden Gai area to check it out. It was cool to see all these small bars that can fit just 6 people. Most we walked by were full so we just ended up sightseeing and taking pictures. Afterwards went back to the hotel to call it a night, we each had around 25,000 steps. **Day 2 Tokyo Akihraba, Uneo, Odiba** Start off with the usual hotel buffet before we make our way to the train station. We decided to go to Mt Fuji tomorrow, so we booked our ticket at the JR station. Our first stop is Akihraba Electric Town. It was great to roam around the shops and we stopped by an arcade to play some games like DDR. We stopped by the Square Enix caf to look at the wares. We tried to go to a maid caf, but the wait times were over an hour. We then walked up to Ueno Park. It was cool to see the water lilies in the pond and the shrine in the park. We then went to the Japan National Museum and looked through the Honkan Gallery. It was nice to see ancient scrolls and samurai swords. We then took the train back to the hotel and stopped at the nearby 7-11 for some snacks. We took an Uber to Team Lab as we were a bit tired and didnt want to transfer lines on the train. Team Lab was awesome, the experiences were awesome, and I enjoyed the infinite lights room and the flower garden. Afterward, we took an Uber to the nearby giant Gundam statue. We walked around the skywalk area and saw the Statue of Liberty replica. Finally took an Uber back to the hotel, after another 20,00+ walking step day. **Day 3 - Mt Fuji** Hotel buffet, then straight to the train station. Took express to Tokyo Station, then to Otski, and finally to Kawaguichko. It was a bit annoying having to juggle the paper tickets for each station. When we got to the Fuji area we picked up more paper tickets for the cable car, bus, and boat ride. We took the red line bus and stopped by the cable car area first, but unfortunately, it was a cloudy day, so we didnt get good views of Fuji. We then headed back down, to catch the boat to do a quick lake trip. Afterwards did some shopping and got some snacks before we took the bus to the Music Forest. The museum was closed, but we walked around the gardens. Had to wait a while for the next bus to go to the living center. It was cool to walk around the gardens and take pictures, but again poor visibility because of the clouds, so didnt get good views of Fuji. While waiting for the bus, a young kid came to practice his English with us, was very wholesome. We made it back to the train station with 3 minutes to spare before our train left. We ended up having to cut some people waiting to pay the bus fare. When we got back to Shinjuku we stopped by Hinoya Curry to get some Japanese curry. It was the best meal weve had as the curry had a nice kick to it and paired well with the rice. The pork cutlet and fried chicken were also tasty. My dad was happy to go back there again for every meal. Only had around 10,000 steps today but still a long day with lots of sitting on the train and bus. We also decided to book a private tea ceremony for Sunday morning in Kyoto as we had a full day for tomorrow and didnt have time to fit it into our schedule. **Day 4 Kyoto** Buffet -&gt; train station -&gt; Uber to Hotel Okura Kyoto. We booked a guide for Kyoto for him to take us to all the hot spots since we only had one full day here and wanted to have an expert take us to the spots. We first went to Arayshiya Bamboo Forest. It was nice to see the bamboo and be in the shade, but nothing special. We then took the train to Fushimi Inari. It was awesome to see all the gates. We did the quick loop, which was enough to get a taste of the area. We then took the bus over to the Kiyomizudera Temple area. We were able to see the Yasaka Pagoda and many other shrines and temples along the path. It was cool to offer a prayer and then hit the pot with a gong. We stopped by the iconic Starbucks and then got some street food from a vendor. We were famished after all the walking so tried to look for a restaurant in Gion after our tour guide dropped us off. Everywhere was full, my parents ended up calling an Uber back to the hotel, while my sister and I looked to find a spot. We first went to the traditional Japanese restaurant, but the menu didnt look appetizing, and we finally settled on a generic Japanese restaurant that had tempura, fried chicken, and beef and sake. **Day 5 Osaka** Hotel buffet again, they had a nice green tea latte to enjoy. Our tour guide came to meet us at the hotel and drove us to Osaka. He was a French national that has been living in Japan for the last 8 years and a big gamer nerd too (had a sephiroth tattoo). Had a nice chat on the hour drive to Osaka, our first stop was Osaka Castle Park. It was nice to walk around the area and take pictures. Next was Shitennoji Temple. It was okay, but at this point think we were all starting to be templed out. Next, we went to the Shinseki area. We got some takoyaki, Ill admit it was a bit hard to eat and its something I wouldnt go out of my way for. We saw some cool shops and eateries, one place you had to catch fish in a pond before they cooked it for you. We got some ice cream smoothies to wash down, the Takoyaki. Got in the car and headed to the Chuo area. It was a lively area we stopped by the marathon man and saw the Osaka mascot. We stopped by the Final Fantasy 14 caf to check the wares, then headed back to the car for our trip back to Kyoto. Once back in Kyoto, we wanted to check out the Pontocho area for food, but after our grueling experience last night, we decided it was better if we just ate at the hotel buffet as there is too much uncertainty in trying to find a restaurant that can accommodate 4 people. The buffet was nice, it had rice, beef, chicken, dumplings, and even pizza. Afterward, we took a night stroll to the Pontocho area, it was bustling as the night was about to get started. Me and my sister went to Kitsune Kyoto to check out the nightclub. Drinks were cheap and tourists got 2 drinks for 800 yen. It was a good mix of locals and tourists and had good throwback pop EDM music (circa 2010s). After we left, we spotted a Geisha. They were extremely quiet and everyone kind of just admired them from afar. **Day 6 Kyoto - Tokyo Shinjuku** We skipped breakfast as our time was limited, and we had a tea ceremony at 10:00 a.m. We checked out of the hotel and stored the bags in the lobby. My mom wanted to see the Golden Temple, so we booked an Uber first thing in the morning and got there around 9:15 a.m. We did a quick speed run through the temple, and we were out at about 9:50. We hurried back in an Uber to Nishiki Market to get to the Maikoya Kimono Tea Ceremony. We had to walk a bit when Uber dropped us off but we made it around 10:15 a.m. We changed to our Kimonos and took plenty of pictures. We then had a private room for our tea ceremony, and it was great to learn about the history. We enjoyed the sweets prepared and the green tea. Took more pictures, then went to stroll through Nishiki market. We got some fried chicken, and shrimp tempura at some of the eateries. We wanted to eat and move, but then saw signs saying No eating while walking a testament to the cleanliness culture. We got back to the hotel around 12:30 and called an Uber to the train station to make our 1:08 train back to Tokyo. Once back in Tokyo we put our stuff down at Hotel Century Southern Tower again and rested a bit before we went to the Government Office. There was a festival happening at Chuo park, so we walked around it first, before heading up to the observatory in the Government Office. It was free to go in and had nice views of the city. Afterward, I wanted to see the Square Enix headquarters, so we walked to the area and stopped by the Artnia shop. On the way back to the hotel, we spotted a CoCo Curry House and got a to-go order. This was our last night but everyone was pretty tired, so we stayed in and packed. **Day 7 Back home Roppongi, Tokyo Tower** Our last hotel buffet We checked out and put our bags in the lobby to go do some last-minute sightseeing. We wanted to go to the Roppongi Hills area, so we tried to use our JR pass but the trains didnt go to that area. When we left the JR station our pass stopped working, guess it was a sign it was time to go. We went to the subway and got a one-way ticket to get to Roppongi. We stopped at a Don Quijote to pick up some last-minute souvenirs. My dad only had 10,000 yen left and it caused a bit of a headache when he tried to split a bill between me and him since they only scanned one passport. Ended up having to split the purchase it took a while, but this interaction drained most of our energy. We trekked a bit to the Tokyo Tower area, but you could tell everyone was ready to go home. We called an Uber to our hotel, picked up our luggage then called an Uber to the airport. I got a Tempura meal with shrimp and eel at the airport before heading off on the 12-hour flight. It was a full flight this time so no first-class Overall, it was a great trip, a bit rushed by hit all the highlights and got to experience much of the culture. Next time I go Id like to prioritize food more (7-11 was the place we ate the most) and try other unique experiences (sumo match, ryokan, etc...) **Tips:** * Bring comfortable walking shoes(We averaged 20,000 steps a day) * Convert Yen at home (better exchange rate) * Book experiences early!!! * Dont try to plan too many things in one day **Loved:** * Shibuya Area * Team Lab Planets * Akihraba * Maikoya Kimono Tea Ceremony. * Curry Rice * Hotel Century Southern Tower in Tokyo * Hotel Okura Kyoto **Wouldnt prioritize again:** * Bamabo forest * Mr Fuji (without checking the forecast) * takoyaki * Going in summer (95F everyday was hot!!!)"}
